第一步 拥有傲娇的造型
1. Buy expensive tailored clothing that only sort of fits so that most of the time your buttons appear to be just seconds from bursting.
衣服。要买那种又贵又紧的定制款，达到下一秒纽扣就会被胸肌爆开的效果。
2. Get a Belstaff coat and blue scarf. The coat cost about 1350 pounds. It's got good twirl for those dramatic moments in life.
外套。来一套贝达弗的大衣和蓝围巾。一套价值1350英镑的大衣，随时准备迎接人生的精彩时刻。
3. Grow your hair slightly longish, if it isn't naturally wavy (poor you), wear curlers to bed every night.
发型。略长的卷发——蛤？你不是自来卷哦？小可怜，那你只好每晚带着卷发夹入睡了。
4. Stop eating, gotta get those cheekbone sharp enough to cut butter.
脸型。不要吃！要瘦！瘦出能切开黄油的颧骨。
第二步 重复标志性动作
Once you grow your hair slightly longish, be sure to play with it at every opportunity.
一有机会就炫一下小卷毛。
Fiddle with items, your hair, flick your fingers, rub your leg, pace, rock, and bite your lips.(Well, most of that could just be on the "how to cumberbatch" list)
性感的小动作，比如摆弄头发、轻弹小指、摩擦双腿、踱步、摇晃、轻咬嘴唇。（好吧，上面很多其实都是在回答“如何变成康伯巴奇”。）
第三步 练习古怪表情
scary puppy like head tilts and glares
斜着头，怒目，像受到惊吓的狗狗那样
smiles and puma snarls
笑并且像美洲狮一样咆哮
第四步 提醒所有人“你们其实是蠢货”
Play up being smarter than everyone, develop some obvious insecurities. Forget social skills if you happen to have any.
一定要展现自己过人的智慧，努力地表现出心神不定的样子。把那些社交技巧抛到脑后吧！
第五步 帅到没朋友
Keep around people who like to remind you how smart you are, and stay even though they think you are a dick.
只跟那些能凸显你聪明的人做朋友，哪怕他们觉得你坏坏哒。
Care about them, but don't let on mkay?
偶尔关心他们一下，但也别太真情流露，收到？
第六步 找到你的“花生”
This is BBC Sherlock, so your Watson isn’t stupid. He's rather smart in his own way and insecure about his sexuality (probably straight).
因为这里说的是BBC的夏洛克，所以你的华生不是真傻，只是用自己的方式展现智慧。他还有点不确定自己的性向（万一是直的呢）。
He also has serious thrill issues dude.
他也是个妥妥儿的喜欢刺激事的家伙。
Be prepared to save his life on numerous occasions.
请做好准备随时当他的救世主。
第七步 培养癖好
It has to take over most of every waking minute. It's all you want to talk about. Prepare to watch people's eyes glaze over.
你一定有一个连走路时都念念不忘的怪癖。你只想聊这个。瞧着吧，观众会被你帅到的。
Nothing else matters, not even basic astronomy.
斗转星移关我何事？我的癖好才最重要。
Make it dangerous, this will help you keep your Watson happy.
让它具有一定的危险性，因为这也会让你的“华生”兴趣盎然。
第八步 反（假）复（装）练习轨迹记忆法或者罗马房间法
This way you can tell everyone to shut up and get out so you can go to your "mind palace".
让别人都滚粗闭嘴，这样你就能特别牛掰地走入“记忆宫殿”了。
第九步 每天，告诉全世界“别BB了”，其实这样蛮圈粉的
第十步 如果以上几条都做不到——就公告天下说你有反社会人格
It scares/intimidates people and they don't know better anyway.
这会吓走一些人，这些人不了解你更好。
Except your Watson, he thinks it's hot.
除了你的华生，他会觉得这样的你性感极了！
