A child prodigy with an IQ higher than Albert Einstein is celebrating becoming a unique member of Mensa. Nishi Uggalle, ten, is one of the youngest people in the country to score the highest possible mark of 162 in the IQ society's supervised testing.
一位智商比爱因斯坦还高的天才儿童正庆祝自己成为门萨的特殊会员。这位小姑娘是妮诗·尤佳拉，今年10岁，在门萨智商测试中拿到了162分的高分，是英国得分最高且最年轻的参试者之一。
The Mensa Supervised IQ Test can only be taken by children aged over ten-and-a-half and consists of two separate industry-standard assessments. One measures mainly verbal reasoning skills and the other, which includes diagrams and images, assesses visual and spatial logic. And Nishi, from Audenshaw in Tameside, scored the highest possible mark of 162 in the first test – known as the Cattell III B score. She scored 142 in the second element, the Culture Fare Scale, with the results putting her in the top one per cent of the nation in terms of IQ. Anyone scoring a percentile of two in any Mensa test is admitted to the society.
门萨智商测试的参试者必须是超过十岁半的儿童，测试包括两部分独立的行业标准评估。一部分主要测试语言推理能力;而另一部分包含表格和图形，测试视觉和空间逻辑能力。而来自坦姆赛德的妮诗在第一部分卡特尔III B测试中得到了最高的162分，在第二部分的文化能力量表(Culture Fare Scale)中得到了142分，该测试结果使她名列英国智商最高的前1%人群，而门萨测试成绩前2%的参试者都可以成为门萨会员。
The controlled test takes two-and-a-half hours and, according to theories, Nishi's score and subsequentIQ of 162 would be two points higher than famous physicist Einstein.
测试采用闭卷形式，长达两个半小时。理论上说，妮诗的测试成绩以及由此推算出的162分智商比大名鼎鼎的物理学家爱因斯坦还要高2分。
The former pupil at Audenshaw's Poplar Street Primary is studying at Withington Girls' School and starts at Altrincham Grammar School for Girls in September. She lives with her parents, Neelanga and Shiromi, who moved to Manchester from Sri Lanka in 2001. Dad Neelanga, 44, praised Nishi's first teachers at Poplar Street Primary. He said: 'We knew very early on that she was gifted. She started reading and writing very early and was became very good at mathematics. We gave her challenging, interesting things to do. As a parent, you do not want their talents to be wasted, but there has to be a balance with their childhood. She is just a normal 10-year-old, just like any other 10-year-old really. She loves reading, cycling and walking, and we're all very proud of her.'
妮诗原来就读于奥顿肖杨树街小学，现在就读于威辛顿女子学校，今年九月会进入奥尔特林厄姆女子语法学校。她与父母尼朗加和施若咪一起生活， 2001年，一家三口从斯里兰卡搬到了曼彻斯特。44岁的父亲尼朗加称赞妮诗在杨树街小学的启蒙老师们功不可没。他说：“我们很早就知道她有天赋，她很小就开始阅读和写字，而且非常擅长数学计算。我们让她做一些有挑战又有趣味的事。作为父母，你不想让孩子的天赋荒废掉，但是在他们的童年时期又需要平衡。她只是一个普通的10岁小孩，真的就像任何其他的10岁小孩。她喜欢阅读、骑车、散步，我们都为她感到骄傲。”
John Stevenage, chief executive of British Mensa, said he was delighted for Nishi. He said: 'I hope she will make full use of her membership to meet new, like-minded people and challenge herself. Joining Mensa opens the door to an international network of more than 100,000 people and many members make friends for life.
英国门萨首席执行官约翰·斯蒂门尼奇说他为妮诗感到高兴。他说：“我希望她能充分利用好成为门萨会员的机会，结交志趣相投的新朋友，不断挑战自己。加入门萨，就为你打开了一扇大门。门萨是一个会员超过10万人的世界网络，很多会员会成为终生好友。”
