Weaker demand from emerging markets made 2015 the worst year for world trade since the aftermath of the global financial crisis, highlighting rising fears about the health of the global economy.
新兴市场需求减弱使2015年成为全球金融危机爆发以来世界贸易最糟糕的一年，凸显出对于全球经济健康的担忧加深。
The value of goods that crossed international borders last year fell 13.8 per cent in dollar terms — the first contraction since 2009 — according to the Netherlands Bureau of Economic Policy Analysis’s World Trade Monitor. Much of the slump was due to a slowdown in China and other emerging economies.
根据荷兰经济政策研究局(Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy Analysis)发布的《世界贸易监测》(World Trade Monitor)报告，以美元计算，去年跨越国际边境的商品总价值下降了13.8%，是自2009年以来的首次萎缩。这一暴跌很大程度上源于中国和其他新兴经济体的放缓。
The new data released yesterday represent the first snapshot of global trade for 2015. But the figures also come amid growing concerns that 2016 is already shaping up to be more fraught with dangers for the global economy than previously expected.
昨日发布的新数据是对2015年全球贸易图景的第一张快照。但在这些数据发布之际，有越来越多的人担心2016年对全球经济而言将比此前预期的更为危机四伏。
Those concerns are casting a heavy shadow over a two-day meeting of G20 central bank governors and finance ministers due to start tomorrow. The International Monetary Fund this week already warned that it was poised to downgrade its forecast for global growth this year, saying the leading economies needed to do more to boost growth.
这些担忧给周五开幕、为期两天的G20央行行长和财长会议投下了浓重的阴影。本周国际货币基金组织(IMF)已经警告准备下调其对今年全球增长的预测，称主要经济体需要采取更多举措来刺激增长。
The Baltic Dry index, a measure of the trade in bulk commodities, has been touching historic lows. China, which in 2014 overtook the US as the biggest trading nation, this month reported double-digit falls in both exports and imports in January. In Brazil, which is experiencing its worst recession in more than a century, imports from China have collapsed.
衡量散货大宗商品贸易的波罗的海干散货运价指数(BDI)已经触及历史低位。2014年超过美国成为世界最大贸易国的中国本月报告，1月出口和进口都出现两位数下降。正在经历一个多世纪以来最严重衰退的巴西从中国的进口暴跌。
Exports from China to Brazil of everything from cars to textiles shipped in containers fell 60 per cent in January from a year earlier while the total volume of imports via containers into Latin America’s biggest economy halved, according to Maersk Line, the world’s largest shipping company.
根据全球最大航运公司马士基航运公司(Maersk Line)的数据，从汽车到集装箱运输的纺织品，1月中国对巴西出口同比下降60%，而通过集装箱进入拉美最大经济体的总进口量减半。
“What we are seeing right now from China is not only a phenomenon for Brazil, we are seeing the same all over Latin America, declining [Chinese export] volumes into all the markets,” said Antonio Dominguez, managing director for Maersk Line in Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay and Argentina. “It has been going on for several quarters but is getting more evident as we move into the year [2016].”
“我们现在从中国看到的情况不仅仅是巴西一国的现象，我们在整个拉美都看到了同样的情况，中国对所有市场的出口都在下降，”负责马士基航运在巴西、巴拉圭、乌拉圭和阿根廷业务的执行董事安东尼奥•多明格斯(Antonio Dominguez)表示，“已经连续几个季度出现这种情况，但随着我们进入（2016）年，这种局面变得越来越明显了。”
