Here are the news events that the search engine Baidu says most captured Internet users' attention in 2015:
以下是搜索引擎百度公布的在2015年里最受网友关注的十大新闻事件：
The military parade in Beijing on Sept. 3 that commemorated the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II was the news event that users looked up the most on Baidu's search platform. The celebration featured thousands of troops marching past President Xi Jinping and his predecessors, Hu Jintao and Jiang Zemin, as well as foreign leaders, including President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
用户在百度搜索平台上最常点阅的新闻事件是，为纪念二战胜利70周年于9月3日在北京举行的阅兵仪式。在此次庆祝活动中，上万名军人接受了现任国家主席习近平、前任主席胡锦涛和江泽民，以及多位外国领导人的检阅，其中包括俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)。
A series of explosions on Aug. 12 that originated in a warehouse illegally storing hazardous chemicals in the port city of Tianjin killed 173 people, injured hundreds and left behind post-apocalyptic scenes of destruction. The blasts raised serious questions about the lax enforcement of safety regulations during China's rapid industrialization.
8月12日，港口城市天津的一座非法储存危险化学品的仓库发生一连串爆炸，导致173人死亡，数百人受伤，造成的破坏景象仿佛末日来袭。此次爆炸事件提出了有关中国在快速工业化进程中安全监管松懈的严肃问题。
In October, the government announced that it was ending the decades-old "one-child policy," which restricted the number of children that married couples are allowed to have. The new regulations will not take effect until next year.
10月，政府宣布准备终结数十年之久的“独生子女政策”。此项政策限制了已婚夫妇的孩子人数。新规定要到明年才会生效。
In July, a video of a couple having sex in the fitting room of a Uniqlo clothing store in Beijing took the Internet in China by storm. Some commenters speculated that it was a publicity stunt by the retailer, which denied the claim. Several people were detained on suspicion of uploading and distributing the video.
7月，中国网络上突然疯传一对情侣在北京一间优衣库的试衣间里做爱的视频。有评论猜测这是优衣库的宣传噱头，但该店否认了这种说法。数人因涉嫌上传及传播该视频而被捕。
A video of Bi Fujian, a popular television host, poking fun at a song from a Cultural Revolution-era opera about the Chinese civil war, with his own critical asides about Mao and the Communist Party, appeared online in April. Despite the government's efforts to contain its spread, it circulated widely, with some commenters defending Mr. Bi's opinions and his right to express them.
4月，著名电视节目主持人毕福剑的一段视频在网上流传。在视频中，他以文革时期的京剧剧目调侃国共内战，并夹杂了他个人对毛泽东和共产党的批评。尽管政府竭力阻止，这则视频仍广为流传，更有评论支持毕福剑的意见并捍卫他的言论自由。
Over the summer, the bubble in the Chinese stock markets burst, wiping out trillions of dollars in valuation. Despite extensive efforts to contain the plunge, the Shanghai Composite Index had declined 43 percent on Aug. 26 since its peak on June 12.
夏季期间，中国股市泡沫破裂，数万亿美元的市值因而蒸发。尽管政府作了大量努力遏制股市暴跌，上海证券综合指数仍由7月12日的峰值一路下滑，到8月26日时下跌了43%。
In an effort to protect China's role in the global economy as a manufacturing hub, the central bank devalued the currency in August, in the biggest drop in decades. Later in the year, after the International Monetary Fund added the renminbi to its group of global reserve currencies, the value of the currency fell further, possibly reflecting capital outflows.
8月，为了捍卫中国在全球经济中的制造业中心的地位，央行引导人民币作出数十年来最大幅的贬值。稍后，在国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)把人民币纳入全球储备货币之后，人民币进一步贬值。这一现象可能反映了资本外流。
The release of Apple's iPhone 6s and 6s Plus models in September led to record sales in China, which accounts for more than a fourth of the company's operating income. Apple, whose products are often viewed as status symbols in China, is in competition not just with its South Korean archrival Samsung, but with the increasingly popular Chinese smartphone makers Huawei and Xiaomi.
9月，苹果iPhone 6s和6s Plus发售，在中国创下销售记录。中国占苹果公司总营收的逾四分之一。在这里，苹果的产品往往被视为地位的象征，它的竞争对手不仅有来自韩国的劲敌三星(Samsung)，还有日益流行的中国智能手机品牌华为和小米。
NASA's announcement of its discovery of an Earthlike planet in July captivated the Chinese imagination.
7月，美国国家航空航天局(NASA)宣布发现了一颗类地行星，激发了中国人的想象。
A powerful earthquake struck off Japan's southern coast on May 30, prompting fears in China of a catastrophe similar to the tsunami and Fukushima nuclear power plant meltdown that followed the 2011 Japanese quake. In the end, no fatalities or major damage were reported.
5月30日，日本南部海岸附近发生了强烈地震，使中国民众担心，继2011年后，类似海啸和福岛核电站熔融的大灾难会再次发生。不过，最后并没有出现人员死亡或重大损毁的报道。
