 China’s investment in Europe and the US has reached record highs, despite the slowdown in the country’s domestic economy.
 尽管中国国内经济放缓，中国对欧洲和美国的投资却达到创纪录高位。
 Overall, state-owned and private businesses invested an unprecedented $23bn in Europe — including Norway and Switzerland as well as the EU — in 2015 while investing $15bn in the US, according to a report by Baker & McKenzie, a lawfirm, and Rhodium Group, a consultancy.
 根据贝克•麦坚时国际律师事务所(Baker & McKenzie)和荣鼎咨询(Rhodium Group)的一份报告，2015年中国国有企业和民营企业在欧洲（包括挪威和瑞士，以及欧盟）总共投资了230亿美元，创历史新高；在美国投资了150亿美元。
 However, the figures suggest that the pace of Chinese investment in western economies may be slowing.
 然而，相关数据似乎表明，中国企业投资西方经济体的步伐可能在放缓。
 New investment in Europe was up 28 per cent on the $18bn registered in 2014, a smaller increase than 2014’s doubling of the 2013 figure. Investment in the US was up 17 per cent compared on 2014’s level of $12.8bn.
 对欧洲的新投资比2014年的180亿美元高出28%，相比之下，2014年投资额较2013年翻了一倍。对美国的投资比2014年的128亿美元高出17%。
 Concerns about China’s economy have recently dragged down global financial markets, affecting prospects for the eurozone and many others. Such worries are one reason why the European Central Bank is expected on Thursday to unleash a new round of economic stimulus.
 近期，对中国经济的担忧拖累了全球金融市场，影响了欧元区和其它许多经济体的前景。这种担心是欧洲央行(ECB)预计将在周四启动新一轮经济刺激的原因之一。
 Meanwhile, figures such as Wang Jianlin, China’s richest man, have raised concerns about Chinese state-owned enterprises’ investments in Europe, arguing that they lack international management standards.
 与此同时，中国首富王健林等人士对中国国有企业在欧洲投资的事情表示担忧，声称它们缺乏国际管理标准。
 But Michael DeFranco, chair of Baker & McKenzie’s M&A practice, hailed the Chinese group’s investment in developed economies.
 但是，贝克•麦坚时律所并购业务主席迈克尔•德佛朗哥(Michael DeFranco)对中国企业在发达经济体投资表示赞赏。
 “These are turbulent economic times, and yet we see Chinese companies acting with confidence and continue to make major moves in Europe and North America,” he said.
 “当前是经济动荡时期，但我们看到中国企业满怀信心地行动，继续在欧洲和北美做出大动作，”他说。
 Now Chinese investment in western economies is back on track to break a further record this year: during the first six weeks this year Chinese groups have announced $70bn in potential deals, although the number is highly provisional and not all such acquisitions will be completed.
 如今，中国对西方经济体的投资重回正轨，有望在今年再度刷新纪录：今年头六周，中资集团就宣布了700亿美元的潜在交易，尽管这个数字是非常初步的，并不是所有收购最终都能完成。
 Chinese direct investment in the eurozone was up 37 per cent in 2015, rising to $17.1bn from $12.5bn.
 2015年中国对欧元区的直接投资增长37%，从125亿美元上升至171亿美元。
 Italy, one of the eurozone’s weaker economies, received the most investment of any EU nation from Chinese companies. That was largely down to a $7.9bn deal between Pirelli and ChemChina. France was the number two country, receiving $3.6bn of investment through a string of big deals in the tourism and infrastructure sectors.
 身为欧元区较弱经济体之一的意大利，是欧盟国家中获得中国企业投资最多的。这主要归因于倍耐力(Pirelli)和中国化工(ChemChina)达成的79亿美元交易。法国排在第二位，通过旅游和基础设施行业的一系列大笔交易获得36亿美元投资。
 In the US, New York, California and Texas received the most investment. Chinese firms invested $5.4bn in New York, the top beneficiary, with most of the money spent on three big financial services and real estate deals.
 在美国，纽约州、加利福尼亚州和得克萨斯州获得最多投资。中国企业在头号投资目的地纽约投资54亿美元，其中大部分投入三笔大规模金融服务和房地产交易。
