Many economists doubt the European Central Bank will increase the size of its 1.46tn asset-purchase programme in 2016 despite assurances by ECB chief Mario Draghi that additional monetary stimulus is still on the table.
许多经济学家认为，欧洲央行(ECB)不会在2016年加大其1.46万亿欧元资产购买计划的规模，尽管该行行长马里奥德拉吉(Mario Draghi)保证额外的货币政策刺激仍是选项。
The predictions of no further action in an annual Financial Times poll of eurozone analysts came despite Mr Draghi’s attempts to convince markets that the ECB remained primed to act should inflation and growth across the single currency area continue to disappoint.
在英国《金融时报》的年度调查中，欧元区分析师作出了欧洲央行不会采取进一步行动的预言，尽管德拉吉试图说服市场相信：只要整个单一货币区的通胀和经济增长继续令人失望，欧洲央行就将随时准备采取行动。
In contrast to last year when the vast majority of economists expected the ECB to launch full-scale quantitative easing, just under half of the 33 respondents thought the ECB would do nothing this year. The rest said the ECB would expand QE or cut interest rates, although some of those who expected more easing stressed that the central bank was unlikely to radically reshape its existing policy response.
在去年的调查中，绝大多数经济学家预期欧洲央行将发起全面量化宽松政策，而今年33个受访者中有几乎快一半的人认为欧洲央行将按兵不动。其他人表示，欧洲央行将扩大量化宽松或下调利率，尽管在那些预期会有更多宽松措施的人中，一部分人强调这家央行不太可能从根本上重塑其现有的政策回应。
Latest ECB projections predict the eurozone, which has struggled to grow as strongly as the US or UK, will grow 1.7 per cent in 2016 after hitting 1.5 per cent growth this year as QE bolsters the economy.
根据欧洲央行的最新预测，迄今难以实现像美国或英国那样强劲增长的欧元区，2016年将增长1.7%。今年欧元区将实现1.5%的增长，得益于量化宽松支持经济。
The ECB ended the year with a vote on December 3 to cut its deposit rate to minus 0.3 per cent and an expansion in asset purchases that leaves its quantitative easing programme at 1.46tn. The move came days before the US Federal Reserve increased interest rates for the first time since 2006, underlining the sharply divergent policies being pursued on either side of the Atlantic.
今年临近尾声之际，欧洲央行在12月3日投票削减其存款利率至负0.3%，并扩大资产购买，使量化宽松计划的规模达到1.46万亿欧元。此举出炉十几天后，美联储(Federal Reserve)自2006年以来首次提高利率，突显大西洋两岸正在推行的货币政策截然不同。
But markets plunged following the ECB decision. Investors complained that the central bank had misled markets about the amount of extra stimulus it was prepared to inject to shore up the recovery.
但是，欧洲央行宣布决定后市场暴跌。投资者抱怨称，这家央行此前在其准备注入多少额外刺激以支撑复苏的问题上误导了市场。
Mr Draghi hit back the day after the December vote, saying that there was no “limit” to what eurozone policymakers could do to return inflation to its target.
德拉吉在12月投票表决的次日作出回击，称欧元区政策制定者在动用政策工具推动通胀达标方面“是没有限度的”。
However, the economists polled expect slightly higher growth rates and substantially higher inflation over 2016.
不过，接受调查的经济学家们预期2016年期间将出现略高的增长率和显著更高的通胀率。
When asked if the central bank would do more, Dario Perkins, chief European economist at Lombard Street Research, said: “I don’t think so, unless something goes wrong in the wider global economy.”
在被问及欧洲央行会不会采取更多行动时，朗伯德街研究(Lombard Street Research)首席欧洲经济学家达里奥·铂金斯(Dario Perkins)表示：“我不这么认为——除非全球整体经济出了问题。”
