Movies in 2016 are going to be huge and there's going to be a lot of them. Some of the best movies coming in 2016 include,Batman vs Superman: Dawn of Justice, Captain America: Civil War, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, Finding Dory, Rogue One: A Star Wars Story, X-Men: Apocalypse, Independence Day: Resurgence, WarCraft and Suicide Squad.
2016年即将上映的电影都是鸿篇巨制，众多佳片能让你一饱眼福。这些影片包括：《蝙蝠侠大战超人：正义黎明》、《美国船长3：内战》、《神奇动物在哪里》、《海底总动员2》、《星球大战：侠盗一号》、《X战警：天启》、《独立日2：复活》、《魔兽世界》以及《自杀小队》等。
There are many more 2016 movie releases that will do well at the box office, but there are only a few that we're all eagerly waiting to watch.
2016的很多电影都会有很好的票房号召力，但人们迫不及待想要观看的其实只有那么几部。
Here's a list of the top 10 most anticipated movies in 2016 that we believe will become box office hits and would be worth watching more than once.
以下是其中最值得期待的10部，我们相信这10部电影都将成为票房宠儿，值得反复欣赏。
This movie tells the story of Wade Wilson, played by Ryan Reynolds, who is a mercenary with accelerated healing powers and a dark sense of humour. He's now on the lookout for the man who almost destroyed his life by subjecting him to rogue experiments. Deadpool belongs to the Marvel Universe and is their most unconventional anti-hero.
电影主人公名叫韦德·威尔逊，由瑞安·雷诺兹扮演。威尔逊是一个拥有超强自我修复能力的雇佣兵，擅黑色幽默。他一直在寻找那个将他投入凶残实验、几乎毁了他一生的人。《死侍》由漫威公司出品， 塑造了一个超常规的反英雄人物。
Deadpool will release on February 12, 2016 and it looks like it's going to be a hilarious movie. Oh yes, there's going to be plenty of action and killing as well.
《死侍》将于2016年2月12日爆笑上映。 当然，电影中还有不少动作和杀戮场景。
Probably the most awaited movie of all time and a big one for all Batman and Superman fans. We know that Batman is going to defeat Superman, but we don't know how he's going to do so in Dawn of Justice.
这部电影人们期待已久。无论对蝙蝠侠粉还是超人粉来说，该片都将是一场视觉盛宴。 我们知道，蝙蝠侠将在片中打败超人，但他究竟是怎么做到的呢？
Of course, Christian Bale won't be playing Batman, instead, a rather chubby Ben Affleck will save Gotham from the Superman.
众所周知，蝙蝠侠的扮演者不再是克里斯汀·贝尔，而是肉肉的本·阿弗莱克。他将打败超人，拯救哥谭镇。
Batman vs Superman: Dawn of Justice is scheduled to hit theatres on March 23, 2016.
《蝙蝠侠大战超人：正义黎明》将于2016年3月23日横扫各大影院。
Based on the children's books that goes by the same name, this movie follows the adventures of Mowgli through the Jungle as he tries to discover himself. He comes across several creatures in the Jungle, played by various actors, who make his journey difficult.
该片根据同名童话故事拍摄而成，主要讲述了主人公毛各利的丛林奇遇，他试图在探险中发现自己。他在丛林中遇到很多生物（由众多演员扮演），正是这些生物使他的旅程变得异常艰辛。
The Jungle Book will be released worldwide on April 15, 2016.
《丛林故事》将于2016年4月15日在全球上映。
Civil War takes place after the events of Avengers: Age of Ultron, when the government decides that the Avengers should work under them and not on their own. Steve Rogers, aka Captain America, is against this idea whereas Tony Stark, aka Iron Man, is with the government. This leads to a conflict between Captain America and Iron Man. 
内战发生在奥创事件之后。那时，政府决定超级英雄们必须在政府管理下行事，不能再单独行动。“美国队长”斯蒂夫·罗杰斯表示反对，但“钢铁侠”托尼·斯塔克却赞成政府的做法。两人之间的冲突因此形成。
This is going to be one very interesting movie that shows the relationship between Captain America and Iron Man, who've always had trouble trusting each other.
这将是一部非常有趣的电影，刻画出了美国队长与钢铁侠之间微妙的关系， 两人经常陷入信任危机。
Captain America: Civil War will hit theatres May 6, 2016. Who's side are you on?
《美国队长3：内战》将于2016年5月6日在各大影院上映。美国队长与钢铁侠开战，你支持谁？
A sequel to X Men: Days of Future Past, the latest instalment in the X Men series will see them fight the villain Apocalypse. The movie might see the return of a few older characters and a lot of new ones. We don't really know anymore than that, but it is going to be one amazing film, that's for sure.
该片是《X战警：未来昔日》的续集，也是《X战警》系列电影的最新力作。我们将在片中看到“X战警”大战恶棍“天启”（Apocalypse）。很多昔日的面孔将回归，当然也会有不少新角色出现。 关于电影，我们知道的也仅此而已了，但可以保证的是，这绝对是一部超赞的电影。
X-Men: Apocalypse is said to hit theatres on May 27, 2016.
《X战警：天启》据悉将于2016年5月27日上映。
After the success of The Conjuring, Ed Warren and Lorraine Warren are back to kick some ghost butts. Conjuring 2 is based on the Enfield Poltergeist, which is apparently a true event that took place in London in 1977.
在《招魂》一举成功后， 埃德·沃伦和罗琳·沃伦夫妇又推出了其续集《招魂2》。 影片讲述了1977年发生在伦敦的一个真实故事——恩菲德招灵事件。
Are you ready for a summer scare? Conjuring 2: The Enfield Poltergeist is set to hit the screens on June 10, 2016. We reckon that this is going to be a good horror movie.
你准备好惊悚一“夏” 了吗？《招魂2：恩菲德的骚灵》将于2016年6月10日上映。我们认为这将是一部非常好的恐怖片。
The movie takes place a year after the events of Finding Nemo and follows the journey of Dory to find her parents. Dory is helped by Nemo and Marlin in this epic adventure along the coast of California. You will also see some new characters introduced in the film.
故事发生在《海底总动员》第一部结束的一年后，多莉展开了一场全新的海底冒险：寻找自己的父母。在这部史诗巨制中，多莉沿加利福尼亚海岸的冒险之旅，得到了尼莫和马林的鼎力相助。 故事中也将迎来一批全新的角色。
Finding Dory releases on June 17, 2016.
《海底总动员2》将于2016年6月17日上映。
The most badass super-villains assigned to protecting people, that's Suicide Squad for you. A government agency called A.R.G.U.S recruits villains to perform dangerous tasks that in turn reduces their prison sentence. The task force includes Joker, Deadshot, Harley Quinn, Boomerang, Killer Croc and several other villains from the DC Comics universe.
超级大坏蛋们将受命保护人类——这就是《自杀小队》的主旨。 一个名叫“A.R.G.U.S”的政府机构招募了一些罪犯帮它执行危险任务，罪犯们将得到的报酬是减刑。这支特遣小队的成员有小丑、死亡射手、哈利·奎恩、回旋镖队长、杀人鳄以及DC漫画宇宙里的其他坏家伙。
The Suicide Squad is scheduled for an August 5th 2016 release.
《自杀小队》将于2016年8月5日上映。
Harry Potter fans, it's time for another movie. A prequel to the Harry Potter films, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them follows the adventures of Newt Scamander in an ancient New York. It is based on the Hogwarts textbook in Harry Potter by the same name.
《哈利·波特》粉们，福利来啦！该片是《哈利·波特》前传，讲述了纽特·斯卡曼德在老纽约的冒险经历。该片根据《哈利·波特》中霍格沃兹学院的同名教科书改编而成。
Newt Scamander is a magiczoologist who studies magical creatures.
斯卡曼德是个魔法生物研究学家。
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them will be released worldwide on November 18, 2016.
《神奇动物在哪里》将于2016年11月18日在全球上映。
Set between the events of Star Wars Episode III and IV, Rogue One will most likely be about bounty hunters who set out to steal the Death Star plans. We're not exactly sure of the plot.
故事背景设定于《星球大战3：西斯的复仇》和《星球大战4：新希望》之间，起义军盗取死星设计图，将很有可能成为被重金追杀的对象。对于电影详细情节，我们也不是很清楚。
Walt Disney Pictures and Lucasfilm have promised a Star Wars film every winter after the release of Star Wars: The Force Awakens. These movies will be spin-offs to the main films.
在《星球大战：原力觉醒》后，迪士尼影业和卢卡斯影业承诺每年冬天推出一部星球大战系列电影，都将围绕原来的主题展开。
Star Wars: Rogue One is set to release on December 16, 2016.
《星球大战：侠盗一号》预计2016年12月16日上映。
