Google and Amazon were quick to put drones to use delivering orders.
谷歌和亚马逊已经开始用无人机送货，反应神速。
But new research suggests delivery is just one small way drones are going to replace humans. The tiny airborne vessels will soon clean windows on skyscrapers, verify insurance claims and spray pesticide on crops.
但最新调查显示，快递运输只是无人机将要取代人类工作的领域之一。看似瘦小的无人机很快就可以给高楼擦玻璃；核实保险索赔，还可能给农作物施肥。
The global market for drones, valued at around $2 billion today, will replace up to $127 billion worth of business services and human labour over the next four years, according to a new research by consulting firm PwC.
普华永道咨询公司最新发布调查报告预计，无人机的全球市场价值如今已接近20亿美元，到2020年，无人机将取代价值高达1270亿美元（约合8271亿元人民币）的商业服务和人工劳务工作。
Drone technology could soon become part of our everyday lives, monitoring problems with crumbling infrastructure such as cracks in tarmac, bridges and houses and even repairing them as part of $45.2 billion of infrastructure work currently done by humans.
无人机科技将很快融入我们的日常生活，监测有裂痕的基础设施的问题，比如柏油路面、桥梁和住宅的裂缝，甚至进行修复工作，进军价值452亿美元的基础设施市场，而目前这一领域基本是人工劳动。
Construction companies, amid other things, will be able to attach 3D printers to drones to produce on site-replacement parts for damaged elements of houses or roads.
建筑公司以及其它机构，未来能够将3D打印机安装在无人机上，为住宅或道路现场生成替换部件。
Drones will be able to perform most tasks at height, reducing the risk of death and injury and increasing efficiency.
大多数高空作业都适合用无人机，以减少工伤并提高效率。
In transport, one of the most promising uses of drones is predicted to be food delivery.
在运输行业，无人机最有可能“大显身手”的领域是食品速递。
“Providing products such as frozen food, ready-to-eat dishes or even daily groceries from large chains may become be the next big thing in the food and restaurant industries,” analysts at PwC said.
普华永道分析师认为，“食品餐饮行业下一步可能着眼于用无人机运输速冻食品、即食食品，甚至大型连锁店的日用品。”
As soon as regulation permits, drones will be able to decrease the time it takes to deliver food, PwC said.
普华永道称，只要规则允许，无人机就可以缩短运送食品的时间。
Google is for instance already trying to solve the problem of how to fly drones safely in yards without endangering pets or other potential obstacles.
比如，谷歌公司已经开始着手解决无人机如何安全飞过人们的院子，不威胁到宠物，也不撞到其他潜在的障碍物。
In agriculture, drones will increasingly be used to gather and analyse data on crops quickly as well as to do precise spraying on plants.
在农业方面，无人机将被更多地用于迅速收集、分析农作物数据，并精确喷洒。
