Federal prosecutors in Philadelphia said on Wednesday that they had indicted five people, including two research scientists, on charges of stealing trade secrets about drugs to treat cancer and other diseases from GlaxoSmithKline, the British drug giant.
费城联邦检察官周三表示，他们已起诉五人从英国制药巨头葛兰素史克公司(GlaxoSmithKline)窃取商业秘密。这些商业秘密涉及治疗癌症和其他疾病的药物。其中两人是药物研究科学家。
According to prosecutors, the two scientists, Yu Xue and Lucy Xi, worked at Glaxo’s research facility in Upper Merion, Pa., and emailed and downloaded confidential data about a dozen or more company products to associates who planned to sell and market the trade secrets through a company they set up in China, called Renopharma.
检方表示，这两名科学家薛羽（音）和露西·席(Lucy Xi)在葛兰素史克位于宾夕法尼亚州上梅仁(Upper Merion)的研究机构工作。她们下载了该公司十几个或更多产品的机密数据，并通过电邮发送给同案犯。后者谋划通过自己设在中国的任诺药业(Renopharma)，出售和推广这些商业秘密。
Some of the documents involved a monoclonal antibody, a type of cancer treatment, that the company was developing. The indictment, unsealed on Wednesday, describes Ms. Xue, 45, as “one of the top protein biochemists in the world,” who was the co-leader of the company’s project to develop the drug.
其中一些资料涉及葛兰素史克公司正在研制的抗癌药物单克隆抗体。周三公布的起诉书称，45岁的薛羽是“全球最顶尖的蛋白质生物化学家之一”。她也是该公司研发这种药物的联合领导者。
Federal prosecutors with the Eastern District of Pennsylvania said that to conceal their crime, Ms. Xue and two other associates, Tao Li and Yan Mei, agreed to put the proceeds in the name of Ms. Xue’s sister, Tian Xue, who was also charged. Ms. Xi worked with Ms. Xue at Glaxo and was married to Mr. Mei, prosecutors said.
宾夕法尼亚东区的联邦检察官表示，为了掩盖罪行，薛羽和另外两个同伙李涛（音）、梅岩（音）决定将收益转到薛羽的姐妹薛天（音）名下，薛天也在本案中遭到指控。露西·席是薛羽在葛兰素史克的同事，也是梅岩的妻子，检察官说。
The indictment quotes emails among some of the people charged in the indictment, and accuses them of plotting to seek investors in China to market their own products from stolen research.
起诉书援引了嫌疑人之间的一些电子邮件，指控他们谋划在中国寻找投资者，推广他们根据窃取的研究成果自制的产品。
In a statement, the company said it had been cooperating with federal authorities and “we do not believe the breach has had any material impact” on the company’s business or research and development activity.
葛兰素史克在一份声明中表示，公司已经在与联邦当局开展合作，“我们认为，这起泄密事情并未对公司的经营或研发工作造成重大影响”。
Lawyers for the defendants could not be reached immediately for comment.
记者无法立即联系到被告律师请求置评。
