With just four months to go until Apple's new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are released, leaks are definitely starting to pick up pace. It makes sense in light of the recent news that iPhone 7 production is now underway — Apple has never been able to keep a lid on things once workers at its manufacturing partners' plants get their hands on new iPhone parts.
距苹果新品iPhone 7和iPhone 7 Plus发布还有四个月，有关传闻也层出不穷。据最近消息透露，iPhone 7的生产目前正在进行，这一消息比较靠谱——苹果从来没能成功地守住秘密，一旦与其合作的制造厂的工人们染指新iPhone的零件，消息就会泄露。
If you haven't already seen them, be sure to check out all of the big iPhone 7 leaks you missed from this past weekend. Once you're done there, we have an even bigger treat for all the eager Apple fans out there: In all likelihood, the leaked photo below is our first look at a genuine iPhone 7 in the flesh.
如果你还没有见过它们，那你一定要查看过去的一个周末你错过的所有泄露iPhone 7的重大消息。一旦你看了这些消息，我们就可以给苹果死忠粉们爆个更大的料：十有八九，看到下面这张照片，就是我们第一次亲眼见到真正iPhone 7的时刻。
Apple news cycles in mainstream media bounce dramatically between positive and negative. Things were generally pretty downbeat as the company's iPhone business made its climb, but then things reversed completely following the record-shattering launch of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. Now that reporters and analysts have come to terms with the fact that Apple's iPhone business couldn't grow at breakneck speed forever, things have gotten negative again.
主流媒体关于苹果的新闻总是一会儿积极一会儿消极，循环往复。苹果公司的iPhone销量增长艰难时，报道普遍都非常悲观，但是之后iPhone 6和iPhone 6 Plus推出，打破了销售记录，彻底扭转了之前的消极评价。现在既然记者和分析人士已经接受了苹果iPhone业务不可能永远高速增长的事实，报道又陷入了悲观。
As part of the overall negativity on Apple right now, the idea that the upcoming new iPhone 7 is going to be "boring" has begun to permeate through the media. This downbeat attitude is based solely on rumors surrounding the new iPhone's design. People in the know have suggested repeatedly that the new iPhone 7 will look a great deal like the current iPhone 6s and 2014's iPhone 6, but nothing has really been confirmed at this point.
目前在所有对苹果的消极评价中有这样一种观点，已经散布到整个媒体行业，说将要问世的新iPhone 7将会很“无趣”。产生如此消极的态度仅仅源于有关新iPhone设计的传言。知情人士已经多次暗示，新iPhone 7将会与现在的iPhone 6s和2014年出的iPhone 6的外观非常相像，但是这一点还没有被真正证实。
Until now, perhaps.
现在来看，可能是。
We've already discussed why a "boring" new iPhone 7 design probably wouldn't be such a big deal. You can read about why in our earlier post. Apple had better hope that most of its customers feel the same way because it looks like next year's iPhone 7 will indeed look strikingly similar to the current flagship iPhone.
我们已经讨论了为什么“无趣的”新iPhone 7设计很可能没什么大不了。你可以读一下我们之前发的一篇文章，了解原因。苹果最好希望大多数消费者也这样想，因为似乎明年的iPhone 7确实会长得很像现在的iPhone。
Behold what is likely our first look at a real iPhone 7:
让我们抢先看一下iPhone 7的照片吧，很有可能是真的哦。
The photo of what is claimed to be an actual iPhone 7 was posted on Weibo by a user named "Qiu Han tie," and it came alongside images of two different internal components said to be destined for inclusion in the iPhone 7. This iPhone 7 image aligns exactly with what we've seen in earlier leaks and heard from reliable sources, and it is believed to be authentic.
这张据说是真正的iPhone 7的照片，被一个叫“虬扎大汉”的网友发到了微博上，还有两个内部组件的照片，据说肯定是iPhone 7里面的。这张照片与之前泄露的照片上的iPhone一模一样，也与可靠消息来源的说法非常像，因此人们觉得它是真的。
In the image, we see an iPhone that indeed looks a great deal like the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s. On the plus side, the camera lens is huge compared to the one on the iPhone 6s, suggesting that we can expect a dramatically improved camera on the next-generation iPhone. On the flip side, the redesigned antenna lines follow a better path than the current ones, but they appear to be significantly thicker and still just as ugly.
照片上的iPhone确实很像iPhone 6和iPhone 6s。只是摄像头比iPhone 6s要大一点，说明我们可以期待下一代iPhone的摄像头将有很大的改进。在背面，天线带的设计已改，比目前的走线更好，但看上去厚了很多，依然那么丑。
Is this the real deal? Production is underway and all signs point to yes, but obviously nothing is 100% confirmed until Apple unveils its new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus this coming September. In the meantime, this photo likely gives us a good idea of what we can expect. Why would Apple release new iPhones that look just like old iPhones? That will be a much-debated topic over the coming months, but don't forget that a completely redesigned iPhone is expected next year for the iPhone's tenth anniversary.
这是真的吗？生产正在进行，所有的迹象都表明这是真的，但显然，在苹果九月揭开新款iPhone的面纱之前，没有什么是百分之百肯定的。与此同时，这张照片给了我们启发，让我们知道应该期待什么。为什么苹果要推出与老款iPhone长相一样的手机呢？接下来几个月大家一定会热烈地讨论这个问题，但不要忘了明年是iPhone推出的十周年，人们可都期待着苹果推出全新设计的iPhone呢。
