 WeWork has raised $430m from Chinese investors in a fundraising that values the office space start-up at $16bn and will help it expand into Asia.
 WeWork已向中国投资机构融资4.3亿美元，这将帮助该公司向亚洲扩张。目前，这家办公空间租赁创业企业的估值达到160亿美元，高于埃隆•马斯克(Elon Musk)旗下的SpaceX，以及Pinterest。
 Hony Capital and Legend Holdings, both Beijing-based investment groups, led the Series F round. The new financing was “strategic”, said a person close to the deal, in that Hony and Legend will help with its launch in China, which is planned within the next several months.
 这是WeWork的第F轮融资，领投者为两家总部位于北京的投资机构——弘毅投资(Hony Capital)和联想控股(Legend Holdings)。最新融资具有“战略意义”，一位知情人士表示，因为弘毅投资和联想控股将帮助该公司进入中国市场——预计在未来几个月之内进入。
 “Not only does WeWork have one of the largest addressable markets I have ever seen, but the quality of its execution and fit for the Chinese culture is unparalleled,” said John Zhao, chief executive of Hony Capital.
 “WeWork不但拥有我们所看到的最大潜在市场之一，而且执行力质量、以及与中国文化的合拍都是无与伦比的，”弘毅投资总裁赵令欢表示。
 In an interview in February, Adam Neumann, WeWork’s chief executive, said China and India were priorities for the company’s expansion plans.
 在2月接受采访时，WeWork的首席执行官亚当•诺伊曼(Adam Neumann)表示，中国和印度是公司扩张计划的重点目标。
 Mr Neumann founded WeWork in New York in 2010, aiming to lure freelancers and displaced workers to its offices in the wake of a harsh recession. The company leases office space, redesigns it, and sublets it to tenants, catching the eye of millennials with trendy work spaces and happy hours that foster a “physical social network”, as Mr Neumann describes it.
 2010年，诺伊曼创立了WeWork，希望在一次严重衰退之后，把自由职业者和失业者吸引到它的办公场所来。正如诺伊曼所描述的那样，WeWork租入办公空间，对其重新设计之后，再转租给租户，以时髦的办公空间和欢乐时光抓住千禧一代的眼球，从而培育出一个“实体社交网络”。
 WeWork says it now has about 50,000 customers spanning 77 co-working spaces in 23 cities, mainly in the US. It has been pushing abroad, with new locations in Canada and London, where it expects to open 14 co-working spaces by the end of this year.
 WeWork表示，目前拥有约5万名客户，他们分布在23个城市（主要位于美国）的77处共享办公空间里。该公司一直在向国外扩张，在加拿大和伦敦推出了新的共享办公空间，并希望到今年底可以达到14处。
 The six-year-old company has branded itself as part of the sharing economy, capturing more than $1.2bn in the past year and a half from investors including JPMorgan and Fidelity Investments.
 这家成立仅6年的公司标榜自己是共享经济的一部分，在过去一年里筹资逾12亿美元，其中半数资金来自摩根大通(JPMorgan)和富达投资(Fidelity Investments)等机构。
