Career progression, festivals and spinning classes: Bridget Jones tackles the standard activities undertaken by a single woman in London in the first trailer for forthcomingBridget Jones's Baby.
《BJ有喜》即将上映，在日前发布的首支预告片中，升职记、狂欢节、动感单车课程，这些伦敦单身女性包揽了的活动，布里奇特·琼斯统统上演了一遍。
As well as that, Ed Sheeran appears, only to turn her down, and we finally find out more about her mysterious relationship with Mark Darcey's love rival, Jack Qwant (Patrick Dempsey): it involves mud, heels and a white cashmere jumper.
除此之外，预告片中艾德·希兰的亮相只是为了拒绝布里奇特。接下来我们将发现BJ和马克·达西的情敌杰克·奎特（帕特里克·德姆西饰）之间的神秘关系。BJ身穿白毛衣，脚踩高跟鞋，摔入泥潭后满身泥泞地邂逅了杰克·奎特。
The trailer shows how Bridget deals with encounters with her ex (Colin Firth) with alcohol-fuelled elan, and what happens when her colleagues find out she's pregnant.
预告片中，布里奇特偶遇前任（科林·费尔斯饰），并与其上演了一出“点酒风波”。随后BJ怀孕被同事发现引发了一系列闹剧。
But the real scene stealer is Emma Thompson—previously unmentioned on the cast list—as Bridget's doctor. Bad news is, you'll have to watch the whole trailer before you get to witness Thompson.
但预告片中最劲爆的剧透当属艾玛·汤普森饰演了布里奇特的医生，因为之前曝光的演员表中并没有她的名字。坏消息便是，你在快看完整个预告片时才能等到汤普森出镜。
A sequel to the much-loved 2001 rom-comBridget Jones's Diary(and its significantly less well-loved 2004 follow-upBridget Jones: The Edge of Reason), the new film will see Renée Zellweger reprise her role as the titular heroine, after a 12 year break.
《BJ有喜》是深受喜爱的2001年浪漫喜剧片《BJ单身日记》（以及不那么受人欢迎的2004年后续电影《BJ单身日记2：理性边缘》）的续集。时隔12年，在《BJ单身日记3》中，蕾妮·齐薇格将再度出演片名中提到的这个名为BJ的女主角。
In the new film, Bridget is unsure whether the father of her baby is longterm love turned ex Mark Darcy or newcomer Qwant.
在新电影中，布里奇特并不清楚自己腹中孩子的亲生父亲到底是谁，究竟是多年旧爱变成前男友的马克·达西还是新欢奎特。
The final reveal is apparently a big secret—three different endings have been shot, to prevent even the cast of the film from knowing the truth.
最终的谜底显然是一个巨大的秘密——片场拍摄了三种不同结局，甚至连剧组人员都不知道真相。
"It's kind of brilliant," Zellweger said earlier this year. "None of the cast knows who fathered Bridget's baby or who she'll choose as her beau. The plan is to keep us all in the dark, right up to the premiere."
齐薇格在年初时说道：“这么做简直太有才了！剧组里没有一个人知道谁才是布里奇特孩子的亲生父亲，或者说她最终会选中谁。按计划，直到首映那天，我们对结局都毫不知情。”
The film, released this September, is directed by Sharon Maguire (who also directed the first movie) and is based on columns written byBridget Jonesauthor Helen Fielding forThe Independentbetween 2005 and 2006.
这部电影由莎伦·马奎尔执导（她也是第一部BJ电影的导演），将于今年九月上映。该电影剧本基于《BJ单身日记》作者海伦·菲尔丁于2005年至2006年在《独立报》上连载的专栏文章。
Fielding's third, most recent "Bridget" novel, 2013'sMad About The Boy(in which a 51-year-old Bridget begins dating again four year's after Mark Darcy's death) has not been used as inspiration for the film.
菲尔丁在2013年出版了BJ系列小说的第三部、也是最新的一部——《为君而狂》（书中讲述了51岁的布里奇特在马克·达西去世四年后又开始了新恋情）。但新电影没有采用该书的内容作为素材。
