Michelle Dockery's fiance John Dineenhas died in hospital aged 34 after suffering a long-term illness.
米歇尔·道克瑞的未婚夫约翰·迪宁在长期患病后不幸去世，享年34岁。
The Downton Abbeyactress, whose birthday is today, had been in a relationship with Mr Dineen since 2013 after the pair were introduced by actor Allen Leech.
米歇尔·道克瑞曾出演英剧《唐顿庄园》，今天还是她的34岁生日。他们二人于2013年相识相恋，介绍人是艾伦·里奇。
Mr Dineen died in Cork's Marymount Hospital on Sunday morning after being diagnosed with cancer, it has been reported.
据报道，道克瑞的未婚夫迪宁先生罹患癌症，周日早晨于爱尔兰科克的马丽曼医院不幸去世。
The hospital is known for its pain management facilities in Ireland, specialising in palliative care services for terminally ill patients. He is understood to have been treated in London before returning home to Ireland.
这家医院最出名的便是其疼痛管理设备，专为晚期病患提供姑息治疗。据悉，迪宁先生早先曾在伦敦接受治疗，而后返回祖国爱尔兰。
A funeral service is expected to take place in Cork on Wednesday.
葬礼预期将于周三在科克举行。
Dockery is reported to have flown back from the US to be with Mr Dineen and his family in his final hours, visiting the Marymount Hospice.
报道称，早先，道克瑞从美国飞回英国赶到马丽曼医院，陪伴迪宁和他的家人度过他人生中的最后时光。
She was due to celebrate her 34th birthday today, December 15.
道克瑞本该在12月15日当天庆祝她的34岁生日。
A spokesman for Michelle Dockery said: "The family is very grateful for the support and kindness they have received but would kindly request that they are left to grieve in private.”
道克瑞的一位发言人称：“他们一家人非常感谢大家的支持和关心，但也非常希望大家能给他们留点私人空间，进行哀悼。”
The actress has recently been touring the United States with the cast of Downton Abbey as part of a publicity tour for the show.
近期，道克瑞一直随《唐顿庄园》剧组奔走在美国各地，进行影视宣传。
Days ago she appeared on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert and Watch What Happens Live as part of her promotional obligations.
几天前，她登上了史蒂芬·科拜尔的《深夜秀》，后来又出现在《看看会发生什么：直播》上，履行她宣传该剧的义务。
She did not feature in the cast's latest photograph, taken by Allen Leech on December 11 outside the White House.
然而，在艾伦·里奇于12月11日在白宫外拍摄的最新集体照上，并没有她的身影。
In October, she unexpectedly pulled out of London play Les Liaisons Dangereuses. At the time, no reason was given for her departure.
十月份时，她意外退出参演本该在伦敦上演的戏剧《危险关系》。当时退出的原因不明。
It is understood Mr Dineen has been battling illness for months.
据悉迪宁先生与病魔已经斗争了数月之久。
A senior director with FTI Consulting, he grew up on a farm near Cork and is believed to have proposed to Dockery in February.
FTI咨询集团的一位高级主管表示，迪宁先生在爱尔兰科克附近的一家农场长大，据说曾在二月份时向道克瑞求婚。
The couple had been photographed together at the Venice Film Festival, Wimbledon and at polo's Cartier Queen's Cup, but had rarely spoken of their relationship.
人们曾在温布尔登的威尼斯电影节和由卡地亚赞助、英女王主办的马球会上，拍到了这对璧人的合照，但他们二人鲜少提及感情问题。
In 2014, the actress said: "I have a wonderful man in my life from Ireland. We were introduced by Allen Leech. That's all you need to know."
道克瑞曾在2014年说道：“我有一个很棒的爱尔兰男友，是艾伦·里奇介绍的。没有什么其它事了。”
In an interview with Red Magazine,published this month, she spoke of the security her relationship brought her, confiding: "I've got people around me who I can turn to for advice: my mum, and my partner, John. But, at this stage, my instincts are pretty good."
在接受《红色杂志》采访时，道克瑞谈了谈这段感情给她带来的安全感，她吐露道：“我已经有了可以给我忠告的人：我的母亲和我的男友约翰。但我现在的直觉还是挺准的。”
"You quickly realise that the press can get to you. I've got people around me who I can turn to for advice: my mum, and my partner, John (Dineen, her PR fiancé). But, at this stage, my instincts are pretty good."
“你很快就会发现媒体报道有时会让你很难受。但我已经有了可以给我忠告的人：我的母亲和我的男友约翰（即约翰·迪恩，道克瑞的媒体公关）。但我现在的直觉还是挺准的。”
Leech, who plays Tom Branson in the ITV period drama, has said of introducing them: "John's like family to me and I knew he'd really get on with Michelle.
艾伦·里奇在《唐顿庄园》这部英国独立电视台（ITV）播放的历史剧中饰演了“小司机”汤姆·布兰森，他曾谈过撮合他们二人的事：“约翰就像我的家人，我知道他一定能和米歇尔合得来。”
"She's a great girl - probably as far from Lady Mary as you could imagine."
“米歇尔是个很棒的姑娘，和你们想象的一样，她和剧中饰演的大小姐玛丽可相去甚远。”
