When have we been more in need of a joyous, candy-coloured, relentlessly perky, exclamation-mark-ridden, outrageously funny sitcom about … an abduction survivor?
这部情景喜剧围绕着逃离“世界末日教”的女主展开，节奏轻松、对话风趣，时而让人惊诧，时而让人爆笑，是一部不可多得的绝佳剧集。
Mark Rylance's Cromwell became one of the people of the year, 475 years after he died.
剧中权臣克伦威尔由马克·里朗斯饰演，无疑是今年荧屏上最耀眼的角色之一。
Sky Atlantic The really magnificent thing was not the nice feeling that Don had attained career zenith, but that expectation was so totally confounded.
这部剧的魅力在于，当你看到主角唐·德雷柏终于走到事业巅峰，内心并未感到喜悦，而是五味杂陈。（注：本剧版权归美国电视台AMC所有，英国独播权则归属Sky Atlantic）
Catastrophe is full of cynical and sinful people, but at its heart it’s an ordinary love story, couched in some first-class swearing, about sexual honesty, served with a side-plate of adultery, lust, elderly parents, flirtatious colleagues, money worries and a dead dog.
《大祸临头》中的角色不是愤世嫉俗，就是心怀鬼胎，但说到底，本剧就是个再平常不过的爱情故事。剧中人物时常爆出几句绝妙的下流粗口，外加婚外情、色欲、父母养老、同事暧昧、金钱危机等元素一锅乱炖。别忘了，还有条叫人心烦的死狗！
London Spy succeeded in keeping a place in the British schedules for the idea of Hard TV: dramas that demand intense concentration and refuse to give up all their secrets on a first – or even a second – viewing.
《伦敦谍影》无疑是英剧中的烧脑之作，哪怕全神贯注，一看再看，依旧会让你大惑不解。
Master of None sits in the post-Louie, Curb Your Enthusiasm genre of indie sitcoms: a hybrid of surreal moments and awkward modern manners that’s also deeply moving.
《无为大师》走的是独立喜剧的路子，效仿了《路易不容易》（注：由喜剧演员路易斯C.K.自编自导自演的情景喜剧）与《抑制热情》（注：改编自拉里·戴维在洛杉矶演艺圈的亲身经历）。剧中离奇场景层出不穷，主人公的尴尬遭遇在博取一笑的同时，也令人动容。
Prime A mesmerising, trippy tale of hacktivism, conspiracies and corporate evil.
情节迷幻，引人入胜，融合了黑客、阴谋与企业犯罪等元素。
Call it a hip-hop soap, call it the black Dynasty, call it groundbreaking, but above all Lee Daniels’s everyday tale of record company shenanigans was a ray of sunshine in E4’s weeknight TV schedule.
这既是一部嘻哈文化的肥皂剧，也是一卷黑人家族的浮世绘。该剧由李·丹尼尔斯执导，创意十足，讲述了一个音乐帝国的跌宕起伏，无疑是E4旗下的重磅剧集。（注：本剧版权归美国ABC电视台所有，英国独播权则归属E4）
In the end, Better Call Saul was far better than it had any reason to be. It was funny – but it had real depth. Over its 10 episodes, Better Call Saul delved into territory more emotional (and more weird) than anyone ever expected.
《风骚律师》着实是部惊艳之作，剧情幽默，意蕴深远。本剧仅10集，却包罗万象。其中的强烈情感与诡异情节，时时出人意料。
Abi Morgan’s shrewd, charming and sometimes trippy detective series, set in the built-up concrete jungle of east London, did something genuinely new.
这部侦探剧由艾比·摩根打造，背景设在伦敦东区的水泥森林，配以一针见血的台词，引人入胜的情节，与时而迷幻的节奏，开创了电视剧的新纪元。
