一名手持屠刀、身穿假冒炸药背心的男子昨日在巴黎北部一个警察局门前被击毙，在时间上适逢讽刺杂志《查理周刊》(Charlie Hebdo)遭遇致命袭击一周年。
The shooting came just minutes after French president Hollande paid homage to police officers killed in the terrorist attacks last January that left 17 people dead.
就在这一枪击事件发生几分钟前，法国总统弗朗索瓦攠朗德( Hollande)刚刚对去年1月导致17人丧生的多起恐怖袭击中丧生的警官致以敬意。
Tensions were high in the French capital because of the anniversary, and the man was immediately shot dead after attacking officers with a knife as he shouted Allahu akbar [God is great], according to officials.
由于昨日是恐袭一周年，法国首都的气氛十分紧张。根据多名官员的说法，该名男子一边喊着“真主伟大”(Allahu Akbar)一边用刀袭击多名警官，他被当即击毙。
French interior ministry spokesman Pierre-Henry Brandet said the unidentified man was wearing something that looked like a suicide belt but on further inspection turned out to be a fake.
法国内政部发言人皮埃尔-亨利布兰德(Pierre-Henry Brandet)表示，这名未确认身份的男子穿着某种看起来像自杀式爆炸腰带的东西，然而进一步调查发现该腰带是假的。
The Paris prosecutor’s office added that the man carried a piece of paper with the Isis flag drawn on it.
巴黎检察官办公室补充说，该名男子携带着一张纸片，纸片上画着“伊拉克和黎凡特伊斯兰国”(ISIS)的旗帜。
New York Times journalist Anna Polonyi, who could see the scene from the window of her flat, posted photos on Twitter that showed the dead body with what appeared to be a bomb-disposal robot beside it.
《纽约时报》(New York Times)记者安娜(Anna Polonyi)可以从其公寓的窗口目睹这一场景。她在Twitter网站上发布了多张照片，照片上显示了一具尸体，旁边有一个似乎是拆弹机器人的装置。
France is still officially in a state of emergency, a measure introduced following the terrorist attacks in November last year, where Islamist terrorists killed 130 people in a co-ordinated attack.
法国仍处于正式紧急状态。这一措施是去年11月的多起恐怖袭击后引入的，当时多名伊斯兰主义恐怖分子发起连环袭击，杀害了130人。
This week has seen a series of events commemorating the anniversary of the Charlie Hebdo massacre, where Islamic extremists murdered twelve people at the magazine and four at a Jewish supermarket.
本周已举办了多起活动，缅怀《查理周刊》遭遇血洗一周年。在那次事件中，伊斯兰极端分子在该杂志社杀害了12人，并在一家犹太超市杀害了4人。
A plaque commemorating the victims was unveiled by Mr Hollande at an official ceremony on Tuesday, although the president was criticised as the name of cartoonist Georges Wolinski was misspelt as Wolinsky.
本周二，奥朗德在一个官方纪念仪式上为一块纪念事件受害者的牌匾举行了揭幕式，不过这位总统因漫画家乔治茠靬斯基(Georges Wolinski)的姓氏被错拼为“Wolinsky”而受到了批评。
