Few could have foreseen the huge commercial success of the movie Deadpool. It defies every convention of the comic book genre. Its hero, the “Merc with a Mouth”, is talkative, mean and horribly disfigured. And yet, somehow, Deadpool has won audiences’ hearts.
几乎没能预料到《死侍》会成为如此成功的商业电影。它颠覆了漫画题材电影的所有套路。主人公“贱嘴雇佣兵”是一个被严重毁容的贱贱的话唠。不过他就这样莫名其妙地赢得了观众的心。
This latest release from 20th Century Fox tells the story of yet another Marvel comics character, and like its superhero predecessors, it too was an instant moneymaker. Deadpool topped the worldwide box office for two weeks, raking in $492 million (3.2 billion yuan). That’s pretty impressive, considering its relatively meager budget of $58 million.F
20世纪福克斯公司的这部新片和之前的超级英雄电影一样，讲述的是漫威漫画人物的故事，它也嗖的一下成了摇钱树。上映两周，《死侍》蝉联全球票房周冠军，拿下4.92亿美元（约32亿人民币）。和它微不足道的580万美元预算比起来，这个数字真是相当惊人。
The “Merc with a Mouth” goes by the alias Deadpool, and he might be the most unheroic protagonist from the Marvel canon. Prior to his superhero transformation, he was once Wade Wilson, a hardened mercenary with a relentless wit.
“贱嘴雇佣兵”在片中化名为死侍，他可能是漫威作品中最反英雄的主人公。在变成超级英雄前，他叫韦德•威尔森，是一个冷血无情的雇佣兵。
A fellow superhero, the X-man Domino, said that Wilson’s most lethal weapon is his mouth: “He’ll talk nonsense until you surrender or commit suicide.” When Wilson takes a cab or does his laundry, he just keeps chattering non-stop. Even when his enemy, the sadistic scientist Ajax, ties him up on the operating table, Wilson still can’t stop muttering.
同样是超级英雄的X-战警多米诺曾说，威尔森最致命的武器就是他的嘴，“他会在你耳边不停轰炸，直到你投降或自杀。”当威尔森打车或者洗衣服的时候，他的嘴就没停过。甚至当他的敌人，虐待狂科学家阿贾克斯把他绑在手术台上时，他还在喋喋不休。
Wilson’s behavior is just as eccentric as his dialogue. To propose on Christmas Eve may sound romantic. But, well, Wilson pops the question pant-less and with a candy ring.
威尔森的行为和他说的话一样奇葩。平安夜求婚听起来很浪漫，可是他却光着腿，拿着一个糖果戒指求婚。
Film critic Daniel Krupa wrote in a review for IGN, “At times it feels more like a surreal sitcom than a big action-comedy”. That’s not a bad thing actually, since Deadpool’s bizarre digressions are exactly what makes the film appealing.
影评家丹尼尔•克鲁帕在评论网站IGN上的一篇影评中写道：“有时这片子看起来更像是超现实的情境喜剧而不是大制作的动作喜剧。”事实上这绝不是坏事，正是因为死侍的离经叛道才让这部电影如此受欢迎。
Just like the undervalued costumed hero he plays, lead actor Ryan Reynolds was seen as box office poison. Reynolds has had chronically bad luck with superhero films. The two movies he starred in, Blade: Trinity (2004) and X-Men Origins: Wolverine (2009), were considered to be among the worst of their franchises.
和这位制服英雄一样被低估的还有它的扮演者瑞恩•雷诺兹，瑞恩曾被称为票房毒药。长久以来，他演过的超级英雄电影的票房成绩都不怎么样。他出演的两部电影《刀锋战士3》（2004年）和《X-战警前传：金刚狼》（2009年）都被认为是系列电影中最糟糕的。
But in Deadpool, Reynolds completely rocked the title role. His toned physique fits the character, and most importantly, he shares Wilson’s sense of humor in his real life. In the comics, the mouthy “merc” calls himself “a cross between Ryan Reynolds and a Shar-Pei”.
不过在《死侍》中，瑞恩完美演绎了主人公。他健美的身材符合角色定位，最重要的是现实生活中的他和威尔逊一样幽默。漫画中，这个满嘴跑火车的“雇佣兵”说自己“介于瑞恩•雷诺兹和沙皮狗之间”。
The success of Deadpool marks a shift in the direction of superhero movies. Flawless heroes are gradually losing their luster, as evidenced by the abysmal earnings of Superman Returns in 2006. The sequel to that straitlaced hero film was canceled. In its wake, a whole new brand of superhero movie has emerged, fronted by back-talking, morally ambiguous characters like Iron Man.
《死侍》的成功也标志着超级英雄电影的转型。完美无缺的英雄们逐渐失去光彩，2006年票房低到不可思议的《超人归来》就是证明。这部老套英雄电影的续集也已被叫停。全新的超级英雄电影正在崛起，起先就是以钢铁侠这样嘴碎、道德界限更加模糊的角色为代表。
Deadpool is the latest film to smash the former superhero mold. “This funny, bloody comedy is the Marvel Universe’s biggest breath of fresh air since Guardians of the Galaxy,” according to a review from The Wrap.
《死侍》是最新一部打破之前超级英雄窠臼的电影。娱乐新闻网站The Wrap上的一篇评论文章说：“这部搞笑、血腥的喜剧是漫威宇宙继《银河护卫队》之后最大的一缕清风。”
