WASHINGTON — The identity of an American serviceman in one of the most iconic photographs of World War II, the raising of the American flag over Iwo Jima, has been called into question by his son, who wrote a best-selling book that memorialized his father’s role.
华盛顿——最具代表性的二战题材照片之一《硫磺岛上升起星条旗》中的一位美国军人的身份，遭到了他儿子的质疑，后者曾写过一本畅销书纪念父亲在其中扮演的角色。
James Bradley, the author of “Flags of Our Fathers,” said in an interview Tuesday that he no longer believed that his father, John Bradley, a Navy corpsman, was one of the six American service members who have been long identified in the photograph.
著有《父辈的旗帜》(Flags of Our Fathers)一书的詹姆斯·布拉德利(James Bradley)在周二接受采访时表示，他现在认为他的父亲、海军医护兵约翰·布拉德利(John Bradley)并非像人们一直相信的那样，是照片中的六人之一。
Mr. Bradley described his doubts about his father’s role after the Marine Corps revealed last week that it had opened an inquiry into whether some of the six men long thought to be in the image had been misidentified. He said that his father, had participated in raising a flag on Iwo Jima on Feb. 23, 1945, but had not participated in a second flag-raising the same day, which became the famous photograph.
海军陆战队于上周透露，为弄清照片中早已得到确认的六人身份是否有误，他们已经启动了一项调查。布拉德利随后对父亲是否为照片中的人表示了怀疑。他说，1945年2月23日，他父亲在硫磺岛上参与过第一次升旗，但并未参与同一天的第二次升旗，而第二次才是那张著名的照片所呈现的场景。
His father, he said, probably thought that the first flag-raising was the one that was captured in the photograph.
他说他父亲可能以为照片捕捉到的是第一次升旗的瞬间。
All of the men identified in the photograph are dead. Three of the men died fighting the Japanese on Iwo Jima. John Bradley died in 1994.
被认为出现在照片里的六个人都已经不在人世了。其中三人在硫磺岛上与日本人作战时阵亡。约翰·布拉德利则于1994年去世。
Mr. Bradley’s doubts tell a story about the fog of war, the efforts of a son to memorialize his father and the apparent willingness of the Marines to at first brush aside questions about one of their most historic moments.
布拉德利的怀疑所牵涉的故事，关乎战争的迷雾，关乎为人子者纪念父亲的努力，也关乎海军陆战队的意愿，它起初显然不想理会这个极具历史意义的瞬间所受到的质疑。
The photograph was taken by Joe Rosenthal, a photographer for The Associated Press, during one of the bloodiest battles of the war. It was splashed across the front pages of newspapers throughout the country less than 48 hours after it was taken, and was an immediate source of patriotism and controversy. President Harry S. Truman used it to sell bonds to fund the war, Mr. Rosenthal brushed back accusations that it had been staged, and questions arose — and were apparently answered — about who was really in it.
二战期间最惨烈的一场战斗打响后，摄影师乔·罗森塔尔(Joe Rosenthal)为美联社(The Associated Press)拍下了这张照片。被拍下还不到48小时，它就占据了美国各地多家报纸的头版，随后立即激发了许多人的爱国主义情怀，但也引发了争议。美国总统哈里·S·杜鲁门(Harry S. Truman)用它推销债券，为战争募资；罗森塔尔驳斥了关于摆拍的指责；接下来又有人问及照片里的人到底都是谁——相关问题似乎已经得到了回答。
The photograph was also the inspiration for the Marine Corps War Memorial in Arlington, Va., a statue in which six 32-foot-tall figures are depicted in the positions captured by Mr. Rosenthal.
弗吉尼亚州阿灵顿的海军陆战队战争纪念碑(Marine Corps War Memorial)的灵感也来自这张照片。在纪念碑上的雕像中，六个32英尺（约合10米）高的人物的姿势，与罗森塔尔捕捉到的姿势一致。
Mr. Bradley said he had become convinced that his father was not in the photograph after studying evidence that was published in a 2014 article in The Omaha World-Herald. He said he had waited a year to examine the evidence in the newspaper article because he was working on a new book in Vietnam, and then became ill. He did not come forward with his belief that his father was not in the photograph, he said, because there was little interest from the news media and the Marines.
 布拉德利表示，在对《奥马哈世界先驱报》(The Omaha World-Herald)2014年刊登的一篇文章中的证据进行了研究后，他开始相信自己的父亲不在照片中。他说等了一年才研究那篇文章中的证据，是因为当时正在写一本和越南有关的新书，后来又生病了。他表示，自己没有公开父亲不在照片中的观点，是因为新闻媒体和海军陆战队对此兴趣寥寥。
“It wasn’t top of mind,” Mr. Bradley said in a telephone interview. “It wasn’t a priority. I was overseas, and this past fall I was recovering from a disease I got in New Guinea that almost killed me. Now there’s interest in this, and I’m talking about it. I didn’t have the energy to carry the water all by myself.”
“当时这不是我最关心的，”布拉德利在接受电话采访时说。“不是我优先考虑的事情。我那时候在国外，在刚刚过去的这个秋天，我一直在养病。我是在新几内亚得病的，差点要了我的命。现在有人对这件事感兴趣了，我就说说我所知道的。我之前没力气全凭自己来做这件事。”
“Flags of Our Fathers,” first published in 2000, was on best-seller lists for nearly a year. It was later made into a movie directed by Clint Eastwood.
《父辈的旗帜》于2000年首次出版，在近一年的时间里一直稳居多个畅销书排行榜。小说后来被改编成电影，由克林特·伊斯特伍德(Clint Eastwood)执导。
“Here is the true story behind the six flag raisers and the immortal photograph that came to symbolize the power and courage of America during World War II,” reads a summary on the back of a paperback edition of the book. “In ‘Flags of Our Fathers,’ the son of one of the flag raisers captures the glory, the heartbreak, and the legacy of the six ordinary boys who came together at a crucial moment in one of history’s bloodiest battles — and lifted the heart and spirit of a nation at war.”
“这是那六名竖旗士兵以及那幅永垂不朽的照片背后的真实故事。那幅照片成了美国在二战期间的力量和勇气的象征，”一本平装版的《父辈的旗帜》封底上的内容简介写道。“在《父辈的旗帜》中，其中一名竖旗士兵的儿子刻画了这六位平凡小伙子的光荣、心碎和传奇。在一场堪称史上最血腥的战斗的关键时刻，他们走到了一起，提振了一个处于战争状态的国家的情绪和精神。”
The Marine Corps acknowledged in a written statement that “a private organization” had approached it with new information about the photograph and that it was investigating the matter, but it would not comment on what that information was.
海军陆战队在一份书面声明中承认，“一个私人机构”找到海军陆战队，告知他们有关这张照片的新信息。海军陆战队称正在调查此事，但不愿就相关信息的内容发表评论。
Marine officials said the inquiry was being led by the corps’ chief historian, and the commandant of the Marine Corps is expected to be briefed on the results of the investigation in the coming weeks. It is not clear when the Marines will release the findings to the public.
海军陆战队的官员称，调查是在其首席历史学家的引领下进行的，并表示海军陆战队的指挥官预计会在接下来几周听取调查结果。尚不清楚海军陆战队将于何时把调查结果公之于众。
“Rosenthal’s photo captured a single moment in the 36-day battle during which more than 6,500 U.S. servicemen made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation, and it is representative of the more than 70,000 U.S. Marines, sailors, soldiers and Coast Guardsmen that took part in the battle,” said Maj. Clark Carpenter, a spokesman for the Marines. “We are humbled by the service and sacrifice of all who fought on Iwo Jima.”
“罗斯塔尔的照片所捕捉的，是那场持续了36天的战斗中的一个瞬间。在那场战斗期间，超过6500名美国军人为国捐躯。照片代表了参加那次战斗的7万多名海军陆战队将士、海军将士、陆军将士和海岸警卫队将士，”海军陆战队发言人克拉克·卡彭特少校(Maj. Clark Carpenter)说。“在硫磺岛上奋战过的所有人的付出和牺牲令我们肃然起敬。”
