Instead of emphasizing the conflict between good and evil, the film looks at the devastation that the “heroes” have caused during their fights. In the wake of an incident where Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen) accidentally destroys part of a building and kills innocent people, the team of superheroes known as the Avengers is faced with increased government supervision.
《美队3》不再将重点放在刻画正义与邪恶之间的冲突，而把目光转移到“英雄”在战斗期间造成的破坏。一石激起千层浪，当绯红女巫（伊丽莎白•奥尔森饰）意外损毁了一幢大楼，并导致无辜平民丧命，政府决定增强对超级英雄战队——复仇者联盟的监管力度。
“The movie is not a celebration of the superhero squad, but a condemnation,” film reporter Julia Alexander wrote in her review for Polygon.com.
电影记者茱莉娅•亚历山大在游戏网站Polygon.com 上的一篇影评中写道：“这部电影不是超级英雄小组的赞歌，而是责难。”
Filmmakers Joe and Anthony Russo, brothers who collaborated to direct Civil War, took pains to make their film as realistic as a superhero film could be. They didn’t shy away from the messy moral quagmires that come with war and bloodshed. Even when superheroes save the day, “there is collateral damage,” actor Jeremy Renner explains in an interview with The Guardian. Renner, who plays the arrow-slinging superhero Hawkeye, believes it’s necessary for films to engage with hard-to-swallow realities. “Otherwise, it’s a cartoon,” he says.
制片人乔•罗素和安东尼•罗素是《美队3》的导演，兄弟二人煞费苦心想让电影达到超级英雄电影能达到的最现实的样子。他们毫不避讳战争和杀戮带来的混乱的道德困境。饰演箭无虚发的超级英雄鹰眼的演员杰瑞米•雷在接受《卫报》采访时解释说，即使当超级英雄们拯救了世界时，“（他们）也会造成连带的损害”，他认为电影中需要融入这种难以接受的真相。他说：“否则，这就是动画片了。“
美国队长3英文
 
That sense of realism also extends beyond the battlefield, to the characters themselves. The film explores the complexity of the superheroes’ emotions: the guilt that comes with the damage they’ve caused, the affection they feel for friends and families, and the sacrifices they have to make.
真实感还超越了战场，延伸到角色身上。电影探讨了超级英雄们内心复杂的情绪：对自己造成损失的内疚之情，对朋友和家人的关心，以及他们不得不做的牺牲。
Finding the time to communicate each character’s emotional struggles can be a challenge in a film as jam-packed as Civil War. The Russo brothers have, quite literally, a whole army of superheroes to introduce. Take Spider-Man as an example: He is one of the most eagerly awaited additions to the superhero team. But Joe Russo wasn’t about to let his story get lost in the crowd. After all, Spider-Man was Russo’s favorite superhero as a kid.
在《美队3》这样一部内容几近饱和的电影里插入每个角色的情感挣扎是个不小的挑战。毫不夸张地说，罗素兄弟需要把所有的超级英雄都引入其中。以蜘蛛侠为例：他是我们最急切期待加入复联的角色之一。但乔•罗素不想让他的故事在扎堆的超级英雄中被淹没。毕竟，蜘蛛侠是罗素小时候最喜欢的超级英雄。
“We took a very personal approach to the character,” Joe Russo told ComicBook.com. “We had thought back to the things that excited us about him as a character when we were younger, and one of the most important components of that was that he’s a high schooler burdened with incredible powers and responsibility. That really differentiates him from every other character in the Marvel universe.”
乔•罗素告诉漫画网站ComicBook.com：“我们用非常人性化的方式来介绍这个角色。我们回忆了儿时他带给我们的兴奋、激动。最重要的是，他只是一个高中生，却拥有超能力和责任感。这是蜘蛛侠和漫威宇宙中其他人物截然不同的地方。“
