 Marriott International clinched a new agreement with Starwood Hotels & Resorts yesterday, making a last-minute comeback to edge out a rival bid from China’s Anbang in the fiercest bidding war dealmakers have seen in recent history.
 万豪国际(Marriott International)昨日与喜达屋酒店及度假村国际集团(Starwood Hotels & Resorts)之间达成一项新协议，在最后时刻反超中国安邦(Anbang)的竞争性报价，这是交易撮合人士近期见到的最激烈的竞购战。
 The final terms of the offer were hammered out in Havana, while the two US companies’ chief executives were accompanying President Barack Obama on his historic visit to Cuba. Starwood signed an agreement to manage three prominent hotels in the Cuban capital, marking the first time in nearly 60 years that a US hospitality company has been allowed to operate in the country.
 收购要约的最终条款是在哈瓦那敲定的，这两家美国公司的首席执行官正随同美国总统巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)对古巴进行历史性访问。喜达屋签订了一份新协议，在古巴首都经营三家著名酒店，成为近60年来第一家获准在古巴开展经营的美国酒店管理公司。
 Starwood said yesterday that it had accepted Marriott’s sweetened cash-and-stock offer of $79.53 per share, valuing the company at about $13.6bn. The move overrides one that Starwood agreed on Friday with Anbang, which had made an all-cash bid of $13.2bn for the owner of brands including Sheraton, St Regis and W Hotels.
 喜达屋昨日表示，已接受了万豪国际上调后的现金加股票收购报价，折合每股79.53美元，对公司估值约为136亿美元。这推翻了喜达屋在上周五与安邦达成的协议，安邦提出以132亿美元收购喜来登(Sheraton)、瑞吉(St Regis)和W酒店(W Hotels)等品牌的拥有者的全现金报价。
 But the fight for control of Starwood appears far from over. Anbang, a politically connected Chinese insurer, is expected to make a counter offer in the coming days, according to people who monitor the sector. They added that nothing had been proposed yet but the Chinese group’s advisers were working around the clock to find a way to increase its offer.
 但是，对喜达屋控制权的争夺似乎远未结束。知情人士表示，未来几天里，拥有政府人脉的中国保险商安邦预计将提出还盘。他们补充称，目前尚未有任何提议，但这家中资集团的顾问们正在彻夜工作，想办法提高报价。
 Shares in Starwood were up a further 4 per cent in early afternoon trading in New York at $83.83. The fact they are trading above the latest offer price reflects a side agreement to sell Starwood’s timeshare business for about $5.83 a share.
 纽约股市后市早段，喜达屋股价再度上涨4%，涨至83.83美元。股价高于最新报价表明，喜达屋签订了一份附属协议，以每股约5.83美元出售其分时度假业务。收市时，喜达屋股价报84.19美元。
 Marriott’s decision to increase its offer highlights how vital the deal is for the company’s future. A successful takeover of Starwood would make it the world’s largest hotel group with a portfolio of 1.1m rooms in more than 5,500 hotels.
 万豪国际决定提高报价，凸显了收购喜达屋对其未来是多么至关重要。如果收购喜达屋获得成功，万豪国际将成为拥有逾5500家酒店、110万套客房的全球最大酒店集团。
 Marriott also said it expected to generate about $250m in cost savings from buying Starwood. The one-off costs of the transaction would be $100m-$130m.
 万豪国际还表示，预计收购喜达屋将产生2.5亿美元的成本节约。该交易的一次性成本将达1亿至1.3亿美元。
