The first self-styled Islamic state of the postwar era was established not in the Arab world but in south Asia, in Pakistan. It was followed by Mauritania in west Africa, Iran and then Pakistan’s neighbour, Afghanistan.
二战后首个自封的伊斯兰国家并非建立于阿拉伯世界，而是在南亚的巴基斯坦。其后是西非的毛里塔尼亚、伊朗，以及巴基斯坦的邻国阿富汗。
While the world frets over the spread of violent Islamist extremism through the Middle East, most recently under the banner of Isis, there is a tendency to forget the menace of violence and creeping religious bigotry among the vast Muslim populations of Asia. It is in Asia, after all, that most Muslims live.
当全世界为暴力伊斯兰极端主义在整个中东地区扩散——近年来在“伊斯兰国”(Isis)的旗帜下——而担忧时，却出现了这样一种趋势，即在亚洲广大穆斯林人口中暴力行径和日渐加深的宗教偏执的危害被忽视了。毕竟，亚洲有着世界最多的穆斯林人口。
In Asia, as in Europe and the Middle East, Isis is a popular brand among young Islamist militants. But the puritanical and bloodthirsty Sunni ideology it represents has been extending its influence there for decades under the guidance of other groups and governments, including al-Qaeda, Saudi Arabia and a plethora of local organisations.
同在欧洲和中东一样，Isis在亚洲也受到了年轻伊斯兰激进分子的欢迎。但Isis所代表的清教徒式、崇尚暴力的逊尼派宗教思想，几十年来就已在其他组织和政府（包括基地组织、沙特阿拉伯以及大量地方组织）的引导下，不断在亚洲地区扩大影响力。
Many westerners — because their own troops have been fighting and dying there in the recent past — are aware of the savagery of the civil war in Afghanistan between the ultra-conservative Taliban and the government in Kabul.
许多西方人——因为本国军队过去几年在阿富汗参战并遭受伤亡——都见识到了极端保守的塔利班与喀布尔政府之间内战的残酷。
But how many recall that Sunni extremists in Bangladesh have in the past few months hacked to death liberal writers and attacked foreigners, police officers, Shia Muslims, Hindus and Christians? That scores of recruits from the Maldives have gone to fight for Isis in Syria? Or that Pakistani terror groups routinely slaughter the perceived enemies of Sunni puritanism at home as well as launching occasional murderous raids into neighbouring India?
但有多少人记得，过去几个月在孟加拉国，逊尼派极端分子砍死自由派作家、攻击外国人、警察、什叶派穆斯林、印度教徒和基督徒的事情？有多少人记得来自马尔代夫的大量新成员已经赶赴叙利亚为Isis战斗？有多少人记得巴基斯坦恐怖组织经常在国内屠杀他们认为与逊尼派清教主义为敌的人士、并不时向邻国印度发动凶残的突然袭击？
East Asia is not immune either. Just as south Asians once revelled in their religious diversity and syncretic Hindu-Muslim culture, so it was long argued that the brand of Islam practised in Indonesia and its neighbours was “milder” than the harsh versions of the Gulf. Yet in recent decades we have seen terrorist bombings in Bali, Islamist separatism in the Philippines and Sumatra, the burning of churches in Java and increasing Wahabbi religiosity that runs counter to the tolerant and heterodox traditions of Islam in the east.
东亚也未能幸免。正如南亚人曾经陶醉于他们的宗教多样性以及印度教和穆斯林文化的融合，很长时间都有一种声音认为，印尼及其邻国所信奉的伊斯兰教比波斯湾国家的“更加温和”。但最近几十年，我们见证了巴厘岛恐怖爆炸事件、菲律宾和苏门答腊的伊斯兰分裂主义、爪哇岛上教堂遭焚毁，以及与伊斯兰教在东方的宽容传统相违背的瓦哈比教派(Wahhbi)的壮大。
Analysing the role of postwar nation states and their constitutions is crucial for understanding the crisis of Islamist violence in Asia: the very name of the country is one reason why the problem is so severe in the pioneering Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
分析战后民族国家及其宪法的作用，对于理解亚洲的伊斯兰暴力危机至关重要：巴基斯坦伊斯兰共和国(Islamic Republic of Pakistan)的名称本身就是这一问题在这个开创性国家为何如此严重的原因之一。
When Muhammad Ali Jinnah separated Pakistan from the rest of India in 1947, it was to protect the Muslim minority of the Raj. He envisaged a secular, tolerant state where Christians, Hindus and others could worship freely.
1947年穆罕默德阿里真纳(Muhammad Ali Jinnah)带领巴基斯坦脱离印度，是为了保护在英国统治下属于少数族群的穆斯林。他设想建立一个世俗、宽容的国家，基督徒、印度教徒以及其他信教者可以自由礼拜。
That was not the way it turned out. Pakistan has become a place where the supposed will of the religious majority is imposed by violence. By becoming an “Islamic” republic, it by definition discriminated against non-Muslims. Non-Muslims are vilified not only in madrassas but also in government school textbooks.
结果事与愿违。在巴基斯坦，被认为是宗教多数派的意志被通过暴力加以贯彻。作为一个“伊斯兰”共和国，巴基斯坦的国名就包含了对非穆斯林的歧视。非穆斯林不仅在伊斯兰学校，而且在政府官方教科书中受到污蔑。
Farahnaz Ispahani, a former member of the Pakistani national assembly, describes in her book, Purifying the Land of the Pure, how the non-Muslim share of the population dropped from 23 per cent at independence to 3 per cent today.
前巴基斯坦国民议会议员法拉赫娜兹伊斯帕哈尼(Farahnaz Ispahani)在《净化圣洁之地》(Purifying the Land of the Pure)一书中讲述了巴基斯坦非穆斯林人口比例如何从独立时的23%下降到如今的3%。
But the “drip, drip genocide” — 60,000 Pakistanis, she says, have been killed by jihadis — did not stop there. Members of the Ahmadi movement were persecuted and declared non-Muslims. Extremists then started massacring Shia. Now the targets are Sufis and other “soft” Sunnis considered insufficiently orthodox by clerics.
但“这场慢性种族屠杀”——据她称，有6万巴基斯坦人被圣战分子杀害——并未就此止步。艾哈迈迪教派(Ahmadi)运动的成员受到迫害，并被宣布为非穆斯林。随后，极端分子开始屠杀什叶派。如今，苏菲派(Sufis)与其他被宗教领袖视为不够正统的“温和”逊尼派又成了极端分子的目标。
There is, nevertheless, a glimmer of hope that Pakistan might, one day, become a moderately open Muslim society. The army seems to have realised that violent Islamists who slaughter Pakistanis pose an existential threat to the state itself.
然而，巴基斯坦兴许有一天会成为一个适度开放的穆斯林社会。军方似乎已经意识到，崇尚暴力的伊斯兰主义者对巴基斯坦人民的屠杀将威胁国家的存亡。
Unfortunately, the generals make a specious distinction between “good” and “bad” jihadis, supporting the “good” who stage terror attacks on Pakistan’s neighbours. The four men who crossed the border and attacked the Indian air base of Pathankot this month were believed to be from a group supported by the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence agency.
遗憾的是，该国将军们对“好”与“坏”圣战分子做了一个似是而非的区分，支持那些向其邻国发动恐怖袭击的“好”圣战分子。本月，4名武装分子越过边界，袭击了印度帕坦科特(Pathankot)空军基地。据信他们来自一个得到巴基斯坦三军情报局(Inter-Services Intelligence)支持的组织。
Yet, as Ispahani points out, the same people who kill Indians or Afghans in the summer will return home when the fighting season is over and murder Pakistani Shia or persecute the few remaining Hindus and Christians.
然而，正如伊斯帕哈尼指出的，战斗季节结束后，在夏季里杀害印度人或阿富汗人的武装分子将回到国内，继续残杀巴基斯坦什叶派，或者迫害人数已经不多的印度教徒和基督徒。
If Pakistan and other Asian nations want to survive as modern, constitutional states rather than descend into the communal violence now common in the Middle East, they will have to enforce a minimum level of religious and cultural tolerance and suppress all their extremists.
如果巴基斯坦与其他亚洲国家要成为现代宪政国家，而非陷入如今中东常见的集体暴力冲突之中，他们将不得不实行最低限度的宗教和文化宽容政策，并打击各路极端分子。
