Pakistan has threatened to buy advanced Russian or Chinese combat jets after Washington withdrew financing for a US arms purchase amid a weakening of its strategic relationship with Islamabad.
巴基斯坦已威胁要购买先进的俄罗斯或中国战斗机，此前华盛顿方面撤销了对一项美国军售的资金支持。目前美国与伊斯兰堡方面的战略合作伙伴关系有所弱化。
“If funding is arranged, Pakistan will get the F16,” said Sartaj Aziz, foreign affairs adviser to Nawaz Sharif, the Pakistani prime minister. “Otherwise, we will opt for jets from some other place.”
“如果资金安排到位，巴基斯坦将购买F-16战斗机，”巴基斯坦总理纳瓦兹•谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)的外事顾问萨尔塔杰•阿齐兹(Sartaj Aziz)表示，“否则，我们会选择其他地方的喷气式战斗机。”
The Pakistan Air Force is looking at other options including the Russian SU35, the Chinese J10 and the Chinese J20 stealth fighter, according to a senior foreign ministry official.
据巴基斯坦外交部一位高级官员透露，该国空军正在考虑其他选择，包括俄罗斯的苏-35（Su-35，北约代号：Flanker-E），中国的歼-10（J-10，北约代号：Firebird），以及中国的新型隐形战斗机歼-20（J-20）。
The US and Pakistan have long had close ties and jointly supported the Taliban rebels who drove Soviet invaders out of Afghanistan in 1989. But the 9/11 terror attacks, masterminded by al-Qaeda from Afghan soil, ushered in a more complex period in which US forces helped overthrow the Taliban regime. The US continues to fight the group’s militants while Pakistan gives them haven.
美国和巴基斯坦长期保持密切关系，曾联手支持阿富汗的圣战者游击队，后者最终在1989年把入侵的苏军赶出阿富汗。但是，由基地组织(al-Qaeda)在阿富汗境内策划的9/11恐怖袭击，使美国与巴基斯坦的关系进入一个更为复杂的时期，其间美军帮助推翻了塔利班政权。美军仍在同塔利班武装分子作战，而巴基斯坦为后者提供避风港。
Washington is also upset by Pakistan’s support for other Islamist terror organisations, while President Barack Obama has said Islamabad is moving “in the wrong direction” by adopting battlefield atomic weapons that increase the risk of a nuclear conflict with India.
华盛顿方面也对巴基斯坦支持其它伊斯兰主义恐怖组织感到不快，同时美国总统巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)已表态称，伊斯兰堡方面装备战场核武器是“向错误的方向”迈步，这类武器将加大巴基斯坦与印度发生核冲突的风险。
Although the US has not cancelled the sale of the eight additional F16s for $700m, it has withdrawn the offer of US credit for the contract because members of Congress from both main parties are demanding what one called “behavioural changes” from Pakistan so that it stops supporting terrorism.
虽然美方尚未取消以7亿美元出售8架额外的F16战斗机，但它已撤回由美国为这份合同提供信贷的提议，因为国会两党都有议员要求巴基斯坦作出其中一名议员所称的“行为改变”，停止支持恐怖主义。
“First the Americans gave us F16s in the 1980s when Pakistan was a close ally and suspended their sale in 1990 only to resume the sale after the 9/11 attacks,” says one former Pakistan Air Force general. “Even if this immediate matter is resolved, no one in Islamabad will trust the Americans. I fear the feeling in Pakistan’s policy circles is increasingly to go to the Russians and the Chinese for other planes that come with a more reliable supply assurance.”
“最初，美方在上世纪80年代向我们提供F-16战斗机，当时巴基斯坦是密切盟友，然后美方在1990年暂停销售，却在9/11恐袭后恢复销售，”巴基斯坦空军一名前将军表示。“即使眼前这个问题得到解决，伊斯兰堡将没有人信任美国人。我担心巴基斯坦政策圈子正在日益形成的感觉是，我们不如从俄罗斯和中国购买其他飞机，获得更可靠的供应保证。”
