When setting business appointments in the Czech Republic, always make them well in advance.
在捷克共和国从事商务交往活动时，一定要提前把注意事项弄清楚。
Punctuality for meetings is an important aspect of Czech business culture and it is taken extremely seriously. It is generally considered inappropriate to be more than five minutes late.
准时参会是捷克商务文化中非常重要的一部分，捷克人十分重视守时习惯。一般认为迟到五分钟以上都是不妥的。
Do not interrupt or raise the level of your voice during business discussions with Czech business people.
与捷克人进行商务讨论过程中，别人在说活时，尽量不要插话，也不要提高说话音量。
Respect your Czech counterparts' sense of personal space. Close personal contact with business acquaintances is frowned upon and should be avoided at all times.
尊重捷克生意伙伴的私人空间。即使是比较熟悉的生意伙伴之间，捷克人也会对谈话中的肢体接触感到不适。任何时候都要注意避免过于亲密。
Don't refuse any invitation offered to you, as crucial business decisions are often made outside the business environment. The Czechs value hospitality as a means through which to build both personal and business relationships.
不要拒绝捷克商人对你发出的任何邀请，因为他们重要的商业决策通常都是在办公区域外做出的。捷克人认为热情好客是构建人际关系以及生意关系的一大桥梁。
Expect to participate in some form of small talk and introductory conversation before entering into business discussions with Czech business people.
在和捷克人洽谈商务时，最好先寒暄闲聊，进行自我介绍，然后再切入主题。
Don't be surprised if your Czech counterparts ask you about your personal earnings. This is an acceptable line of enquiry to strangers in the Czech Republic.
当捷克伙伴询问你的个人收入时，不要感到惊讶。在捷克共和国，陌生人之间询问收入是可以接受的。
Czechs are non-confrontational and often take an indirect approach to business dealings. If they lower their eyes and become silent, they are uncomfortable with something you have said.
捷克人不喜欢与人起冲突。在进行商务交易时，他们通常会采用间接方式来回应。如果他们在交谈时垂下眼睛、沉默不语，就表明他们不满意你说的话。
It will take several meetings for your Czech business associates to become familiar with you and appear comfortable and friendly.
捷克人要通过多次商务会谈后才会和你慢慢熟识起来，之后的交谈会变得轻松友好。
One of the most underlying and inherent features of the Czech culture is their polite and humble approach to life.
捷克人有个根深蒂固、与生俱来的特点：礼貌，谦逊。
During business dealings a direct “no” will often be replaced by an expression such as "it is difficult" or "we will see" in order to avoid confrontation and maintain a certain level of politeness.
在进行商业交易时，捷克商人不会直接说“不”，而会换一种表达方式，如“这有点难办”或“再说吧”，在避免冲突的同时还能保有必要的礼貌。
Business is conducted slowly. You will have to be patient and not appear ruffled by the strict adherence to protocol.
商务进展速度缓慢时，你应该耐心地洽谈，不要对捷克人严守规章的做法感到气恼。
Business is hierarchical. Decision-making power is held at the top of the company. Decisions are reached slowly.
商业是分等级的。决策权掌握在公司的高层领导手中。所以做决策要花的时间比较长。
Avoid high-pressure tactics. Czechs generally offer what they expect to get and do not often give counter-offers.
不要采取高压策略。一般来说，捷克人愿意付出与他们的预期收益对等的条件，通常不接受讨价还价。
Czechs are private people until they get to know you. They are formal and reserved. Once you develop a personal relationship, Czechs open up a bit, but they are never overly emotional.
在足够了解你之前，捷克人十分注意保护个人隐私。他们待人谨慎、内敛。一旦你们成为朋友，捷克人会变得开放一些，但也不会过于表露感情。
Leadership and authority is vertical in structure. Czech managers maintain their status and separate themselves from subordinates. As a result of the hierarchical system of Czech business, decision-making power is centralized and is rarely questioned or challenged by those of a lower rank.
领导力和权威性为纵向结构。捷克的经理人存在地位观念，会和下属保持一定距离。由于捷克商业的这种等级体系，决策权会比较集中，很少会遭到下属质疑或挑战。
1. Weather, nature and historical beauty
天气状况、自然和历史美景
2. Your home country, city and culture
来自哪个国家、哪座城市以及当地文化
3. Your work experience and humorous anecdotes as they relate to work
工作经历、与工作有关的趣闻轶事
4. Hobbies and sports such as golf, tennis and soccer
兴趣爱好和运动项目，如高尔夫、网球和足球
5. Anything about art, music and culture
一切与艺术、音乐和文化有关的话题
1. Extremely serious topics not related to work
与工作无关的极为严肃的话题
2. Global problems, war, the nuclear issue or pollution
全球性问题、战争、核或污染问题
3. Money—although they may ask you about it, they don't talk about their own wealth
钱——尽管对方可能会问到你，但他们却不愿讨论自己的财富
4. Politics in general
政治相关的话题
5. The old communist regime
之前的共产主义政权
