Huawei, the Chinese technology group, is suing Samsung of South Korea for allegedly infringing its patents on mobile devices.
中国科技集团华为(Huawei)起诉韩国企业三星(Samsung)，声称三星侵犯了其在移动设备方面的专利。
The group has filed lawsuits in the US and China seeking compensation for infringement of intellectual property, including patents relating to cellular communications technology and software used by Samsung’s mobile phones.
华为在美国和中国提起诉讼，对据称的侵犯知识产权行为提出索赔，这些知识产权包括与三星手机使用的蜂窝通讯技术和软件相关的专利。
Huawei has won several lawsuits in the past to enforce its patent holdings, but this is the first time that it has challenged the world’s largest smartphone maker.
过去华为在专利维权方面曾赢得多起诉讼。但这是华为首次向全球最大的智能手机制造商发起挑战。
Samsung is one of the technology groups most under threat by the rapid rise of Huawei, which has become the third largest smartphone maker in the world.
华为迅速崛起，三星是面临威胁最大的科技集团之一。如今华为已成为全球第三大智能手机制造商。
Samsung was not immediately available for comment.
记者一时联系不上三星请其置评。
Technology groups such as Huawei, Nokia and Ericsson make money from their large portfolios of patents that other companies need to manufacture smartphones.
华为、诺基亚(Nokia)和爱立信(Ericsson)等科技集团获利于各自庞大的专利组合，其他公司需要这些专利来制造智能手机。
Huawei began making phones much later than either of its Scandinavian rivals. Those two companies in effect helped create the mobile phone market in the 1990s and thus own many of the more basic technologies.
华为开始制造手机比上述两家北欧竞争对手要晚得多。上世纪90年代，这两家企业实际上推动开创了手机市场，因此它们拥有很多比较基本的技术。
However, the Chinese group has invested heavily in the past decade to catch up and take a lead in more modern designs and applications in the smartphone sector.
然而，过去十年这家中国企业大举投资、迎头赶上，在比较现代的设计和智能手机应用方面处于领先位置。
Huawei now has cross-licensing agreements with Ericsson, Qualcomm, Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent and many other telecoms technology makers.
华为如今与爱立信、高通(Qualcomm)、诺基亚、阿尔卡特-朗讯(Alcatel-Lucent)以及其他很多电信技术厂商有交叉许可协议。
In 2015, Huawei invested CNY59.6bn ($9.2bn), or 15 per cent of its annual revenue, in research and development of technologies, products, and wireless communications standards.
2015年，华为在技术、产品以及无线通信标准的研发上投资596亿元人民币（合92亿美元），相当于其年营收的15%。
According to the World Intellectual Property Organisation, Huawei filed the most international patents for the second consecutive year in 2015. The company has been granted more than 50,000 patents around the world relating to 4G mobile, operating systems and user interface, which are crucial to smartphones.
据世界知识产权组织(World Intellectual Property Organisation)表示，2015年华为连续第二年成为申请国际专利最多的企业。该公司在全球范围拥有逾5万个与4G移动、操作系统和用户界面相关的专利，这些方面对智能手机至关重要。
As with other companies, Huawei said it was committed to licensing patents on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis, but added that it was entitled to “reasonable compensation” from firms that used its technology.
和其他公司一样，华为称其致力于在公平、合理和非歧视性的基础上授予专利使用权，但补充称，它有权要求使用其技术的公司给予“合理补偿”。
Ding Jianxing, president of Huawei’s intellectual property rights department, said: “We have seen a large number of patent cross-licensing agreements signed in the industry to ensure legitimate use of technologies, as this is the basis for the healthy development of the smartphone industry. With such a belief, we have actively negotiated with other patent holders in the industry for cross-licensing over the years.”
华为知识产权部部长丁建新称：“我们看到行业内签订了大量的专利交叉许可协议以确保合法使用技术，因为这是智能手机行业健康发展的基础。抱着这样一个信念，多年来我们为了交叉许可协议与业内其他专利持有者积极地进行了谈判。”
