A popular online extreme travel show has been banned in China after a run-in with Isis in a case of war tourism gone badly wrong.
一档在中国网络热播的极限冒险旅游节目在内容涉及“伊斯兰国”(ISIS)的视频播出后遭禁播，这是战地旅游严重出错的案例之一。
The Lu Xing — “On the Road” — show stars Zhang Xinyu, a tofu machine mogul and Liang Hong, his patient wife, who quit the rat race to tour world hotspots, camera crew in tow, since 2013.
这档名为《侣行》(On the Road)的真人秀节目，由商人张昕宇和他耐心的妻子梁红自2013年起带着摄制组奔赴世界热点地区拍摄制作。张昕宇靠贩卖即食豆腐机起家，梁红退出职场和丈夫一起旅行。
From wandering the arms bazaars of Mogadishu to the Buddhas of Bamiyan, the show tapped into a new wanderlust among Chinese professionals, picked high viewing numbers on Youku Tudou, China’s version of YouTube, and a sponsorship by Mercedes.
从流连于摩加迪沙(Mogadishu)的武器集贸市场到巴米扬大佛(Buddhas of Bamiyan)，该节目利用了中国职业人群一波新的旅游热，在中国版的YouTube——优酷土豆视频网络播出，观众人数较高，并得到梅赛德斯(Mercedes)赞助。
But last month the couple appear to have pushed their luck too far. During a visit to Kurdish fighters in northern Iraq they flew a camera-equipped drone over Isis military positions in neighbouring Syria and claimed on camera that the footage was used to identify jihadist targets.
然而上个月，这对夫妇似乎冒险过了头。在访问伊拉克北部的库尔德战斗人员时，他们放飞一架装有摄影装备的无人机，飞过了ISIS在邻近的叙利亚的军事阵地，并在节目中声称，视频内容曾被用于识别圣战分子目标。
Mr Zhang also said the Kurdish YPG fighters gave the footage to the French air force for three bombing raids. The French embassy in Beijing declined to comment on the claims, as did a representative for the Kurdish YPG militia in Germany.
张昕宇还说，库尔德人民保卫军(YPG)将视频内容交给法国空军，由其实施了三次空袭。驻北京的法国大使馆以及德国的YPG代表都拒绝对此置评。
After the episodes depicting the drone reconnaissance were aired last month, the show was suspended and the couple returned to China. The homepage of the show has been removed by host Youku Tudou, and none of the final four episodes, which deal with IS, has been viewable on the Chinese internet. Social media postings and search terms about these episodes have been blocked, a sure sign of China’s “great firewall” at work.
在记录无人机侦察的画面上月播出后，该节目被暂停播放，张昕宇夫妇也返回了中国。节目主页已从优酷土豆网站上移除，而涉及伊斯兰国的最后四集节目在中国的互联网上都找不到。关于这几集的社交网络发帖和搜索内容都被屏蔽，显然受到中国“长城防火墙”的干预。
Youku Tudou declined to comment on why the popular show was abruptly halted.
优酷土豆对于该热播节目为何突然停播拒绝置评。
In their last post on Weibo, China’s version of Twitter, on December 3, the couple said: “We are all well, recently the show has been suspended, there are a lot of theories out there. Thank you for your concern, don’t worry about us! If all goes smoothly, the show will make a comeback soon!”
张昕宇夫妇在12月3日发出的最后一条微博（相当于中国版的Twitter）上说：“我们都很好！最近片子下线，各种各样的声音都有，谢谢大家的惦记，请大家不用担心！如果一切顺利的话片子会在不久之后重新上线！”
Beijing does not disclose its reasons for censoring online content but two people familiar with the matter said the show was suspended amid fears of a backlash by Isis, which killed its first Chinese hostage on November 19.
中国当局不公开在线内容审查的具体原因，但熟悉此事的两名人士透露，该节目停播是出于对遭ISIS报复的担忧，该组织已于11月19日处决了第一名中国人质。
The two most provocative episodes appear to have been aired on November 4 and 11, before Fan Jinghui was executed, according to the weekly broadcast schedule, though as they have been removed the air date could not be confirmed.
根据每周播出时间表，最具煽动性的两集节目似乎分别在11月4日和11日播出，正好在樊京辉被处决之前。然而因节目已被移除，具体播出时间无法证实。
The November 4 episode, viewable on US-based YouTube, showed Mr Zhang and Ms Liang giving Kurdish fighters body armour, helping them load a machine gun and piloting the drone. The November 11 episode showed Mr Zhang telling the camera: “The Kurds turned in the footage from our drones over to the French, and the French military made three air strikes using the material from our footage near the Kurdish frontline. It had a great effect. This is quite consoling for us.”
从服务器位于美国的YouTube上可以看到，在11月4日播出的节目中，张、梁夫妇向库尔德战斗人员发放防弹衣，帮助他们为机枪装弹，并操纵航拍无人机。11月11日播出的节目则可看到张昕宇在镜头前说：“库尔德人将我们航拍飞机获得的视像交给了法国，法国军方使用我们从库尔德前线获得的视频资料实施了三次空袭。效果很好，对我们来说是很大的安慰。”
Military experts interviewed questioned the claim, saying French forces have drones of their own, though it is possible the footage was shared with the French along with other intelligence about Isis positions.
受访的军事专家质疑了这一说法，称法军有自己的无人机，尽管这段视频有可能跟其他有关ISIS阵地的情报一起与法国方面分享。
