 SAN FRANCISCO — Apple’s 13 years of continuous quarterly growth have finally ended.
 旧金山——苹果公司持续13年的每季度增长终于走到了尽头。
 The technology giant said on Tuesday that revenue for its second fiscal quarter, which ended in March, fell 13 percent to $50.6 billion as sales of its flagship product, the iPhone, fell, with little else to take its place. Net income fell 22 percent to $10.5 billion, or $1.90 a share.
 周二，这家科技巨头表示，截止今年3月份的第二财季，随着其旗舰产品iPhone销量下滑，又没什么其他产品顶上，公司营收下跌13%，至506亿美元。净利润下挫22%，至105亿美元，合每股1.90美元。
 The results fell short of Wall Street expectations and Apple’s shares were down more than 7 percent in early after-hours trading.
 由于季度业绩不及华尔街预期，苹果股价在盘后交易早期下跌逾7%。
 Apple may be reaching the saturation point among potential customers in some countries, and other smartphone makers using Google’s Android operating system continue to challenge the company with powerful, lower-price devices. China, Apple’s second-largest market after the United States, is experiencing an economic slowdown and recently shut down Apple’s e-book and digital movie services in the country.
 在一些国家的潜在用户中，苹果可能到达了饱和点。同时，采用谷歌Android操作系统的其他智能手机生产商，持续用性能强大、价格更低的设备对它发起挑战。中国是仅次于美国的苹果第二大市场，但它正在经历经济增长放缓，最近还关停了那里的苹果电子书和数字电影服务。
 Sales fell faster in China than in any other region, down 26 percent compared to the previous year. And sales in the Americas were down 10 percent. Over all, Apple sold 16 percent fewer iPhones in the quarter compared to the same quarter last year.
 在中国的销售同比下降26%，幅度大于其他任何地区。在美洲的销售下滑了10%。总体而言，苹果本季度比去年同期少售出16%的iPhone。
 Apple has high hopes for some of its consumer-oriented services, such as Apple Music and iCloud, as well as for its nascent Watch accessory, but those have yet to turn into giant businesses. The iPad tablet, once a powerful revenue generator for the company, has had disappointing sales in recent years, despite new, larger professional versions.
 对于Apple Music和iCloud等面向消费者的服务，以及新推出的Watch配件，苹果寄予了厚望，但这些业务尚未真正壮大。IPad平板曾经是一个强劲的收入来源，但尽管推出了新的、大屏的专业型号，近几年来它的销量仍令人失望。
 Nevertheless, Apple still generates tens of billions of dollars of cash every year. And the company said Tuesday that it would pass along more of that money to its shareholders. Apple said it would raise its quarterly dividend 10 percent to 57 cents a share and increase the amount of stock it buys back to $175 billion.
 虽说如此，苹果每年的入账仍然以百亿美元计。公司周二表示，它将更多地把这些钱发放给股东。苹果宣布把季度股息从每股10美分提高到57美分，并把股票回购金额增加到1750亿美元。
 Apple’s service business was one bright spot in the quarter, with revenue up 20 percent. The company ended the quarter with $233 billion in cash and marketable securities.
 苹果的服务部门是本季度的一大亮点，部门营收增长20%。苹果在季度末拥有2330亿美元的现金和有价证券。
 “When we look at the dynamics of the iPhone business, we feel very good,” Luca Maestri, Apple’s chief financial officer, said in a phone interview. Although unit sales were down 16 percent, “we continue to draw millions of people that are buying their first smartphone to iPhone.”
 “从iPhone的业务发展细节来看，我们感觉上佳，”苹果公司的首席财务官卢卡·马埃斯特里(Luca Maestri)在接受电话采访时说。尽管销售下降了16%，“仍然有无数人在购买第一部智能手机时选择了iPhone。”
 Mr. Maestri acknowledged weakness in greater China, but he said the strong dollar played a big role there. In Hong Kong, whose currency is pegged to the dollar, sales fell sharply, but in mainland China, revenue was down only 11 percent.
 马埃斯特里承认苹果在大中华区表现疲软，但他表示，美元走强在其中发挥了很大作用。港元与美元挂钩，苹果在香港的销售出现了大幅下挫，而在中国大陆，营收仅下滑了11%。
 Analysts had expected Apple to report revenue of $52 billion and net income of $11 billion, or $2 a share, according to consensus estimates compiled by S&P Global Market Intelligence.
 标准普尔全球市场情报(S&P Global Market Intelligence)的资料显示，分析师曾一致预期苹果的季度营收为520亿美元，净收入110亿美元，合每股2美元。
 In last year’s second fiscal quarter, Apple reported net income of $13.6 billion, or $2.33 a share, on revenue of $58 billion.
 在去年第二财季，苹果公司录得营收580亿美元，净收入136亿美元，合每股2.33美元。
 Denny Fish, a portfolio manager at the Janus Global Technology Fund, said Tuesday that the fund sold some of its position in Apple during the first quarter, citing the company’s growth challenges and worries about its position in China.
 骏利环球科技基金(Janus Global Technology Fund)的投资组合经理丹尼·菲什(Denny Fish)周二表示，该基金在第一季度出售了一些苹果仓位，原因是它的增长面临着挑战，它在中国的状况也令人担忧。
 Its newest smartphone, the four-inch iPhone SE, went on sale in late March, too late to affect the most recent quarterly results, but analysts hope to get more insight into how it is selling. Apple, which is based in Cupertino, Calif., is also expected to introduce other iPhones this year, which could give sales a fresh jolt.
 苹果最新款的智能手机是4英寸的iPhone SE。它在3月下旬上市销售，还来不及对最近的季度业绩产生影响，但分析师们希望能更深入地了解它的销售状况。苹果公司总部设在加州库比蒂诺，预计年内将推出其他iPhone型号，可能会给销售增添新的动力。
 The company was expected to provide more details of the impact on sales of its well-publicized battle with the federal government over unlocking encrypted iPhones. Apple argued that it was fighting for customer privacy and security, while the Justice Department contended that the company’s refusal to help was a “brand marketing strategy.”
 在之前发生的加密iPhone解锁事件中，苹果与美国联邦政府之间进行了广为人知的对抗。预计公司将提供更多细节，展示此事为对其销售的影响。苹果认为，拒绝为政府提供帮助是在捍卫用户的隐私和安全，而司法部称，这是一种“品牌营销策略”。
