HONG KONG —China’s gross domestic product grew at its slowest pace since 2009 in the fourth quarter, a development that is unlikely to reassure investors that all is well in the world’s second-largest economy.
香港——中国第四季度国内生产总值(GDP)增速达到自2009年以来的最低速，这一增速不太可能使投资者们安心，认为世界第二大经济体一切顺利。
The economy grew at a 6.8 percent pace in the fourth quarter, official data released Tuesday showed — slightly slower than the 6.9 percent rate economists had forecast and the slowest expansion since March 2009. For the full year, the economy grew 6.9 percent, just below the government’s target.
官方于周二发布的数据显示，中国第四季度GDP增速为6.8%，略低于经济学家此前预估的6.9%，这是2009年3月以来的最低增速。2015年全年，中国经济增速为6.9%，刚好低于政府目标。
Investors have been on edge in recent weeks amid renewed turmoil in China’s stock and currency markets, the results of unexpected policy moves by Beijing.
近几周，因北京令人意外的政策措施导致中国股市及汇率市场再次出现动荡，投资者感到紧张不安。
In previous years, when China’s economy was smaller and less connected to the rest of the world, investors tended to shrug off such mixed signals. But the concern now is that missteps could have global consequences, as the leadership in Beijing seeks to manage a precarious economic slowdown and curtail the country’s reliance on debt-fueled growth.
几年前，当中国经济体量较小、与国际联系较少时，投资者曾对这种不明确的信号不以为意。但目前的担忧在于，当北京当局试图控制危险的经济减速，减少中国对债务推动经济增长的依赖时，他们的失误可能造成全球性的后果。
“While China’s economy has become already very large, more complex, more private-sector driven, and more connected to the rest of world, the governance structure, policy communication, policy operation, and implementation have not changed much,” Li-Gang Liu, the chief economist for greater China at the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, wrote in an email. “These mismatches will mean that more risks and shocks could originate from China and affect the rest of the world in the coming years.”
“虽然中国经济的总量已经变得很大，结构也更复杂，越来越由私营企业带动，与世界经济的联系也日趋紧密，但政府结构、政策沟通、运行与实施却没有太大的改变。”澳新银行(Australia and New Zealand Banking Group)大中华区首席经济学家刘利刚(Li-Gang Liu)在一封邮件中称，“这些不协调将意味着中国可能会产生更多的风险和震动，在未来几年内波及世界。”
