 The Chinese government laid out its priorities for the year on Saturday, when Prime Minister Li Keqiang gave his annual state-of-the-nation report to the legislature, the National People’s Congress. Here are highlights from that report and other government documents released at the legislative meeting in the Great Hall of the People.
 周六，中国国务院总理李克强在全国人民代表大会(the National People’s Congress)——中国的立法机构——上发表了年度政府工作报告，公布了今年的政府首要任务。这里是来自政府工作报告，以及在人民大会堂(the Great Hall of the People)举行的人大会议上所发布的其他政府文件的一些重点内容。
 The Economy: ‘Problems and Risks’
 经济：“问题与风险”
 Mr. Li said China’s economy would grow by 6.5 percent to 7 percent this year. He gave a picture of a government facing some trying times, including — implicitly — problems left by his predecessors.
 李克强称，中国今年国内生产总值将增长6.5%-7%。他表示政府正面临着艰难时期，还隐晦地指出，其中的一些问题是由他的前任遗留下来的。
 “Domestically, problems and risks that have been building up over the years are becoming more evident,” he said in his report. “Downward pressure on the economy is increasing.”
 “从国内看，长期积累的矛盾和风险进一步显现，”他在报告中说道。“经济下行压力加大。”
 Still, with the right changes, Mr. Li said, it would be possible for China to achieve an average annual growth rate of 6.5 percent from 2016 to 2020.
 但李克强表示，只要采取正确的措施，从2016年到2020年，中国的经济年平均增长率仍有可能达到6.5%。
 Pain for Failing Industries
 工业衰落之痛
 Mr. Li devoted a big part of his report to the potentially painful adjustments to industries that will be needed to shore up growth.
 李克强在报告中花了大量篇幅强调，急需提振增长的工业可能要接受令人痛苦的调整。
 Gluts of coal, steel, cement and other industrial commodities have been generating heavy pollution but dwindling profits. Mr. Li indicated that China would need to lay off millions of workers in failing factories and mines. But the government will set aside about $15.3 billion to support laid-off workers, he said.
 煤炭、钢铁、水泥和其他工业产品造成了严重的污染，盈利却在减少。李克强表示，中国需要在衰落的工厂和煤矿中分流数百万工人，政府则将安排1000亿元用于职工分流安置。
 “We will focus on addressing the overcapacity in the steel, coal and other industries facing difficulties,” he said. “We will address the issue of ‘zombie enterprises’ proactively yet prudently by using measures such as mergers, reorganizations, debt restructurings and bankruptcy liquidations.”
 “重点抓好钢铁、煤炭等困难行业去产能，”李克强说，“采取兼并重组、债务重组或破产清算等措施，积极稳妥处置‘僵尸企业’。”
 State Corporations in Trouble
 困境中的国有企业
 A big reason the government needs to reduce excess production was laid out by the Ministry of Finance in a report issued Saturday: the income of many state-owned corporations is plunging. The ministry forecast that in 2016 the operating income of China’s biggest, centrally managed state conglomerations — built to be pillars of the socialist economy — would fall by more than 13 percent. The main reason, it said, was “the falling profits in the oil and petrochemical, steel, coal and other sectors.”
 周六发布的财政部报告说明了政府需要化解过剩产能的一大原因：许多国有企业的收入正在大幅下降。财政部预计，作为社会主义经济的支柱，中国大型央企的收益在2016年将减少超过13%。报告称，主要原因是由于“石油化工、钢铁、煤炭和其他产业的利润下降。”
 Energy and the Environment
 能源与环境
 Even as the Chinese government is trying to shore up economic growth, it is attempting to reduce smog, polluted water and contaminated soil, topics that have stirred popular anger.
 尽管中国政府正在尝试提振经济增长，它也在试图减少雾霾、水污染和土地污染。类似的话题已经激发了广泛的愤怒情绪。
 But reducing the pollution blighting many parts of China depends on cutting back on the heavy industry, mining and coal use that underwrite much of the economy.
 减少困扰中国多地的污染有赖于削减重工业、矿业和煤炭使用量，而这些都是经济的重要保障。
 The government’s next five-year plan, which was issued along with Mr. Li’s report, laid out goals to cut pollution from this year to the end of 2020. The carbon intensity of the economy — the amount of carbon dioxide pollution released to create each unit of growth — would fall 18 percent over those years, according to the plan.
 在做政府工作报告的同时，李克强也公布了政府的下一个五年规划。其中明确了今年到2020年底减少污染的目标。根据规划，碳排放强度，即单位GDP的二氧化碳排放量将在这几年里减少18%。
 More Than Air Pollution
 不仅是空气污染
 For many Chinese citizens, industrial toxins that have soaked into the water and soil are equal, if not greater, worries than smoggy skies. They worry that heavy metals and other pollutants have contaminated so much of the countryside that food is unsafe.
 对很多中国民众来说，渗进地下水和土壤里的工业毒素，即便不比被雾霾笼罩的天空更令人担忧，也同样令人烦恼。他们担心，农村很多地区都受到了重金属和其他污染物的污染，因此食物不安全。
 The five-year plan includes proposals to expand monitoring of polluted soil, and to set up hundreds of model farming and construction sites to show how toxic earth can be cleaned up. But a lasting solution may be a long way off.
 五年规划中包含了扩大土壤污染的监测范围，以及设立数百个农业示范基地和建筑示范工地，演示如何清理有毒土壤的建议。但离找到长久解决办法可能还有很长的一段路要走。
 Military Spending Slows as Revenue Dips
 军费预算随政府收入下滑
 China surprised many experts when its military budget for the year grew by 7.6 percent, far below the double-digit increases that have become the norm. But the Ministry of Finance report shows that the growth of government revenue is slowing down, along with the general economy. This year, revenues for the central and local governments are projected to grow by 3 percent, about half of last year’s rate of 5.8 percent.
 中国今年的军费预算仅增加7.6%，远低于此前已成为常态的两位数增长。这令很多专家感到意外。但财政部的报告显示，和总体经济一样，政府收入下滑。今年，中央和地方的收入预计会增加3%，大约相当于去年5.8%的增幅的一半。
 Old-Fashioned Planning Still Matters
 过时的宏伟计划仍然重要
 China has come a long way from the period in the 1950s when it absorbed ideas and expertise from the Soviet Union. But a few legacies persist, including a liking for grand five-year plans, and on Saturday the government released its next blueprint, which will guide the country through to the end of 2020.
 距离中国吸收苏联思想和专业技术的上世纪五十年代时代已经过去很久了，但少量遗风仍保留了下来，包括喜欢制定宏伟的五年规划。周六当天，政府便公布了自己的下一份规划。一直到2020年底，这份规划都将是引导中国的纲领性文件。
 But there is an important aspect to this old-fashioned planning device where climate change and the planet’s future are concerned. In the latest plan, the government elaborated on its goals to cut carbon dioxide pollution from coal and other fossil fuels, and to expand construction of nuclear power plants, hydropower dams, and solar and wind power.
 但在考虑到气候变化和地球的未来时，这份过时的规划有一个方面很重要。在最新规划中，政府详细介绍了降低煤炭和其他化石燃料造成的二氧化碳污染，以及扩大核电站、水电站、太阳能发电厂和风力发电厂建设的目标。
