 ZTE, the Chinese telecommunications infrastructure company, will reshuffle its management today, including naming a new chairman to replace founder Hou Weigui .
 中国电信设备制造商中兴(ZTE)今日将调整管理层，包括任命一位新的董事长来替换创始人侯为贵。
 The company declined to comment yesterday about whether the changes were related to its troubles in the US, where it has been hit by sanctions over accusations it was a conduit for sensitive US technology to Iran, in violation of US export control laws.
 对于这些人事变动是否与其在美国遭遇的麻烦相关，该公司昨日拒绝置评；美国指控中兴成了美国敏感技术流入伊朗的通道，触犯了美国的出口管制法律，美国据此对中兴实施制裁。
 ZTE faced a total ban on the supply of any technology from US companies, which analysts said would be disastrous if it were protracted and which drew condemnation from Beijing.
 中兴面临获得美国公司技术供应的全面禁令，分析人士表示，如果禁令持续实行，那将是灾难性的，这一禁令遭到了北京方面的谴责。
 But last month, following weeks of discussions, the commerce department said it had agreed to suspend the restrictions until June 30 in return for commitments by ZTE to disclose the full extent of its sales to Iran and North Korea and to undertake internal reforms to comply with US laws banning trade with prohibited countries.
 但上月，在经过几周的谈判后，美国商务部表示，它已同意在6月30日之前暂缓限制，作为回报，中兴承诺将全面披露向伊朗和朝鲜销售产品的情况，并启动内部改革，以遵守禁止与被禁止国家进行贸易往来的美国法律。
 Under a temporary licence, US companies are permitted to do business with ZTE but it has not been removed from the list of prohibited companies. The licence will expire at the end of June 30 if it is not extended by US authorities.
 根据一项暂时许可证，美国企业可以与中兴做生意，但中兴还没有从被禁止公司名单中除名。如果没有得到美国政府的延长，该许可证将在6月30日之后失效。
 ZTE’s board is expected to meet today and tomorrow to disclose 2015 financial results and discuss management changes. The meeting had been scheduled for last month but was delayed amid the sanctions probe.
 预计中兴董事会将于今明两日开会，披露2015年业绩并讨论管理层变动。此次会议原本定在上月举行，但由于制裁调查而被推迟。
 The company declined to say how many executives would be replaced but confirmed chairman and founder Mr Hou would be retiring — though denied that was linked to last month’s events.
 中兴拒绝透露将替换几名高管，但证实董事长和创始人侯为贵将退休——尽管否认这与上月的事态相关。
 Mr Hou’s retirement was revealed on January 10, when his name was absent from a list of board members in a filing made to the Hong Kong Stock exchange, according to the company.
 据中兴称，侯为贵退休是在1月10日公布的，当时在递交给港交所(Hong Kong Stock exchange)的一份监管申报文件中，他的名字没有出现在董事会成员名单中。
 “The board will meet together to select a new management team and also the new chairman [of the board],” ZTE said. “It is up to the 14-member board to elect a new chairman.”
 “董事会将开会选定新的管理团队并任命新的董事长，”中兴表示，“将由14人组成的董事会推选一位新的董事长。”
 Nomura has estimated that 10-15 per cent of the components used in ZTE’s telecoms equipment and smartphones were supplied by US-based vendors as of last year.
 野村(Nomura)估计，去年，在用于中兴电信设备和智能手机的零配件中，有10%至15%是由总部位于美国的供应商供应的。
