China’s arms exports are continuing to surge as the Asia-Pacific region rapidly militarises, according to a top military think-tank.
瑞典斯德哥尔摩国际和平研究所(Stockholm International Peace Research Institute，简称SIPRI)表示，随着亚太地区迅速军事化，中国武器出口继续大幅上升。
The study of the global arms trade from 2011 to 2015 by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute found that Beijing’s weapons exports have nearly doubled in five years and are concentrated on neighbours of India — mainly Pakistan but also Bangladesh and Myanmar.
这家重要军事智库对2011-2015年全球武器交易的研究发现，中国的武器出口在5年内几乎翻了一番，且集中于印度的邻国，主要是巴基斯坦，但也包括孟加拉和缅甸。
The figures are likely to add to international fears over Beijing’s growing military influence and stoke further friction with neighbouring India. The sum total of the data showed an unmistakable military build-up across Asia, as the nations of the region contend with China’s rise.
这一数据很可能会增加国际上对北京日益增长的军事影响力的担忧，还会激起中国与邻国印度的进一步摩擦。武器出口总量显示，随着亚洲各国抗衡中国的崛起，该地区整体军力已明显增加。
China’s biggest client during the past five years was Pakistan, which bought 35 per cent of the country’s arms exports. Pakistan was followed by Bangladesh and Myanmar, also neighbours of India, which accounted for 20 per cent and 16 per cent of Chinese arms exports respectively.
过去5年中国最大的客户是巴基斯坦，该国占到了中国武器出口的35%。随后仍是印度的两个邻国孟加拉国和缅甸，它们分别占到中国武器出口的20%和16%。
China’s increase in exports has allowed Beijing’s arms industry to finance faster development of domestic weapons, and the same study showed China’s imports have fallen by 25 per cent over the same period exports have surged. It was still the third-largest importer of weapons globally in the past five years, accounting for 4.7 per cent, mainly from Russia, said Sipri.
中国武器出口的增长也让其军工行业能够资助国内武器更快发展。该调查还显示，在中国武器出口激增的同时，中国的武器进口下降了25%。SIPRI表示，过去5年中国仍是全球第三大武器进口国，占全球武器进口的4.7%，主要从俄罗斯进口。
Beijing’s rapid military expansion has sparked security fears around the Asia-Pacific region, particularly in response to China’s muscular defence of its maritime claims in the South China Sea. India was the world’s largest importer during the 2011-2015 period, accounting for 14 per cent of global arms imports, and China’s other neighbours have also begun to beef up their arsenals.
中国军事的快速扩张引发了对亚太地区的安全担忧，尤其是关于中国在南中国海对其海洋权益诉求的强大防御。2011-2015年期间全球最大武器进口国是印度，占全球武器进口的14%。中国的其他几个邻国也开始加强其军火库。
Vietnam, for example, which faces an increasingly intractable confrontation with China over South China Sea Islands, saw arms imports rise by a massive 699 per cent to hit 2.9 per cent of global imports, according to Sipri.
以越南为例，该国因南海诸岛(South China Sea Islands)问题面临着与中国日益棘手的冲突。SIPRI数据显示，越南武器进口剧增699%，在全球进口中占到2.9%。
Six of the 10 biggest arms importers in the five-year period were in Asia and Oceania, Sipri said. In addition to India, China and Vietnam, Australia accounted for 3.6 per cent, Pakistan for 3.3 per cent and South Korea for 2.6 per cent.
SIPRI表示，这5年期间全球十大武器进口国有六个都在亚洲和大洋洲。除印度、中国和越南之外，澳大利亚占到3.6%，巴基斯坦占到3.3%，韩国占到2.6%。
Last year Sipri announced China had boosted exports of military weapons and equipment by 143 per cent over the previous five years to usurp Germany as the world’s third-largest arms trader.
去年SIPRI曾公布过去5年中国的军事武器和装备出口增加了143%，让中国超过德国成为全球第三大武器交易商。
