 Foreign websites in China face new restrictions under a proposal that seeks to force internet service providers to block access to everything with a domain registered outside the country.
 在中国境内运营的外国网站面临一项网络管理办法的新限制。该管理办法的草案寻求禁止互联网服务提供商为境外注册的域名提供境内网络接入服务。
 The draft legislation is the latest in a series of tough measures designed to bolster the so-called Great Firewall, China’s online censorship apparatus.
 中国出台了一系列旨在加强其网络审查机制——即所谓的“长城防火墙”(Great Firewall)——的严厉措施，该办法草案是最新一例。
 Many foreign websites, including Google, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and many foreign news websites, are already blocked.
 包括谷歌(Google)、Facebook、Twitter、YouTube和诸多境外新闻网站在内，许多境外网站已被屏蔽。
 Industry analysts say the rules, disseminated on Monday, fit a new pattern in which the government is making its powers and the limits of dissent more explicit and public rather than denying their existence.
 行业分析人士表示，上周五发布的《互联网域名管理办法（修订征求意见稿）》中的规定与中国政府的新做法相吻合。这种新做法是，政府正在更明确、公开地表明自己的权力和对异见的限制，而不是否认其存在。
 The new rules are part of a set of draft revisions to Chinese regulations on managing internet domain names. Article 37 of the draft states: “For domain names engaging in network access within the borders, but which are not managed by domestic domain name registration service bodies, internet access service providers may not provide network access services.”
 上述新规是该修订征求意见稿的一部分。其中第37条规定：“在境内进行网络接入、但不属于境内域名注册服务机构管理的域名，互联网接入服务提供者不得为其提供网络接入服务。”
 Experts were still studying the draft rules on Tuesday. Charlie Smith of Greatfire.org, a website devoted to monitoring Chinese online censorship, said the wording appeared to be purposefully vague, which in practice could allow enforcement agencies to do with it what they wished. “I think the language being used is probably not exactly clear and that the authorities have purposely made things unclear and open to interpretation or, as the case may be, misinterpretation” he said.
 本周二，专家们仍在研究这份草案。专门监测中国网络审查的网站Greatfire.org的查理•史密斯(Charlie Smith)表示，草案措辞似乎故意含混不清，这实际上可能使得执法部门能够为所欲为。他说：“我认为，所用的措辞很可能不太明确，当局故意含糊其辞、留下解释——甚至可能是曲解——的空间。”
 It remains to be seen whether the draft law will eventually be implemented, and whether, even if implemented, it will be enforced. Similarly dire sounding laws have been passed recently with no noticeable effect on the already difficult environment for foreign internet companies in China.
 该草案最终是否会实施，以及即便实施的话，是否会强制执行，目前看来仍是未知数。近期中国通过了一些同样听起来可怕的法规，但尚未对在华境外互联网企业面对的已然艰难的环境产生明显影响。
 One such new law, brought into force this month, handed Beijing draconian powers to stop foreign companies or partly foreign-owned companies from publishing online without approval from the broadcast regulator, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television.
 本月开始实施的一部此类新法规赋予中国政府强大的权力，可以叫停外企或外资持股企业未经中国国家新闻出版广电总局批准的网络出版活动。
 So far, however, according to some foreign publishers and foreign chambers of commerce in Beijing contacted by the Financial Times, no one has been affected by the new law.
 然而，英国《金融时报》接触的一些境外出版商和外国驻京商会表示，迄今谁也没有受到这项新规的影响。
 Experts say that the directives simply formalise long-held powers the government has rarely hesitated to use in practice: the ability to block online content, whether foreign or domestic.
 专家们表示，这些法规只是使政府长期以来拥有、并在实际使用时很少犹豫的权力正式化：即屏蔽网络内容（无论境外还是境内）的权力。
 One foreign owned online publisher who asked to remain anonymous said there had been no contact from the regulator on the new rules, in a break from usual practice. “Instead there has been silence. Its almost eerie. No one has met with us for about six months,” they said.
 一家要求匿名的外资网络出版商表示，监管部门一反常态，并未就新规与他们接触。“相反，监管部门一直保持沉默。可以说有点儿诡异。大约半年来，谁也没有约见过我们，”他们表示。
