As the smartphone market in China slows, Apple has taken a big step towards expanding its presence in India by applying for official government permission to launch its first flagship retail store in the country.
随着中国智能手机市场放缓，苹果(Apple)向拓展印度市场迈出了一大步。苹果已向印度政府提出申请，希望在该国开设首家旗舰零售店。
The move underlines a broader search for new growth markets for Apple, at a time when some Wall Street analysts predict iPhone sales might fall this year, for the first time in its history.
在部分华尔街分析师预测今年iPhone销量将出现自问世以来的首次下滑之际，此举突显苹果正在广泛地寻找新的增长市场。
The world’s most valuable business by market capitalisation has steadily increased its operations in India over recent years but the long-awaited decision to open a shop is likely to be viewed as a clear statement that Apple plans to expand more aggressively in the fast-growing Asian market.
以市值计，苹果是全球最有价值的公司。苹果近年来已在稳步扩大在印度的业务，但在印度开店这个迎合外界长久期待的决定，很可能会被视作一个明确表态，表明苹果计划更加积极地在快速增长的亚洲市场上拓展。
Apple confirmed it had filed an application to India’s department of industrial policy and promotion, which, if accepted, would allow it to open its first solo branded retail outlet.
苹果证实已向印度工业政策和促进部提交申请，如果获批，将可以在印度开设首家品牌专卖店。
Until recently, Apple’s relatively expensive iPhones have struggled to compete in India’s cost-conscious electronics market, winning a reputation as a prized status symbol among affluent buyers but at prices beyond the reach of ordinary consumers.
直到最近，苹果相对较贵的iPhone在印度注重价格的电子产品市场上还难以与其他产品抗衡。它在富裕买家中被视作重要的地位象征，但其价格超出普通消费者的承受能力。
In the longer term, however, Apple views India as the most likely replacement for the booming sales in China that have powered its rise over recent years. Analysts say smartphone sales in China are levelling off, as are those in industrial economies.
但从较长期来看，苹果将印度视作中国市场最可能的替代者，正是蓬勃发展的中国市场为苹果近几年来的上升提供了动力。分析师表示，与在工业化经济体一样，智能手机在中国的销量也趋于稳定。
India’s smartphone sector boomed during 2015, becoming the world’s fastest growing market for the devices. Roughly 250m Indians own smartphones, a level expected to double by 2018, according to industry estimates.
2015年印度智能手机行业发展兴旺，成为全球增长最快的智能手机市场。约有2.5亿印度人拥有智能手机，据业内人士估计至2018年这一数字将增加一倍。
Apple responded by bolstering its marketing and shaking up its distribution network. It also launched a big advertising campaign for its iPhone 6S, which it sold mostly via online retailers and high-street phone shops.
针对印度市场状况，苹果加强了市场营销力度，重组了分销网络，并举办了一场iPhone 6S大型推广活动。目前苹果主要通过在线零售商和手机店销售iPhone 6S。
The company has viewed India’s market as too small and complex to sustain its high-end shops but has experimented with “store-in-store” mini-shops, in partnership with retailers.
过去苹果认为印度市场规模过小也太复杂，不适合自己开设高端商店，因此一直与零售商合作，采取“店中店”的迷你店铺形式。
The application is also likely to raise speculation that Apple may soon begin to manufacture in India. Foxconn, the Taiwanese contract manufacturer that makes most iPhones, announced plans to set up factories in India last year.
苹果此番申请开设门店还可能引起猜测，苹果可能很快会开始在印度生产。为苹果制造大部分iPhone的台湾合同制造商富士康(Foxconn)去年宣布计划在印度建厂。
