HONG KONG — A Chinese technology regulator said on Friday that it would cooperate with a bank to set up a $30 billion fund to support the country’s huge electronics supply chain.
香港——中国一家科技监管机构周五表示，将与一家银行合作设立一个2000亿元人民币的基金，以支持该国庞大的电子器件供应链。
The creation of the new fund underscores China’s ambitions to expand its tech capabilities and also signals how those ambitions are being threatened by slowing growth and recent market turmoil.
成立新基金突显出了中国增强科技实力的雄心，也标志着这些雄心壮志受到了经济增速放缓和最近的市场动荡的威胁。
Official accounts of the fund did not make clear precisely how the money would be spent. But given the recent weakness in Chinese manufacturing and lower-end electronics manufacturers, it may be intended as a form of stimulus to the tech industry. The terminology used in media accounts signals China’s bold technology ambitions. Reports about the new fund said it would be used to build a “strong manufacturing country” and an “Internet power.”
有关该基金的官方言论未明确表示这笔钱会如何花。但考虑到最近中国制造业和低端电子产品制造商的疲软，该基金可能会被用来作为对科技行业的一种刺激。媒体报道中的用辞标志着中国在科技行业的勃勃雄心。有关新基金的报道说，它将被用来建设一个“制造强国”和“网络强国”。
A report in state-run media said the fund was created to address problems faced by small and medium enterprises that have come under pressure or folded recently because of a lack of funding. The report made reference to recent factory closures, specifically pointing out the closing in October of Fu Chang Electronic Technology, a supplier to the telecom equipment makers Huawei and ZTE.
官方媒体上的一篇报道称，成立基金是为了解决中小企业面临的问题。最近，因为缺乏资金，这些企业面临着压力，或是已于近日倒闭。报道提到了最近的工厂倒闭潮，并明确提到电信设备生产商华为和中兴的供应商福昌电子在10月的倒闭。
The fund will be created through a partnership between an industry group controlled by China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology and Ping An Bank. Signaling the importance of the initiative, the signing ceremony was held at the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse, which is often used to host visiting dignitaries, and was attended by representatives of many of China’s largest technology companies, including Lenovo and Alibaba, according to an official release.
基金将由中国工业和信息化部管理下的一个行业组织与平安银行合作成立。从官方发布的新闻稿来看，签约仪式在通常用来招待来访显贵的钓鱼台国宾馆举行，出席签约仪式的有来自中国很多大型科技公司的代表，包括联想和阿里巴巴。这表明了此事的重要性。
Local shares have been hit hard this week by concerns about a depreciating currency and slowing growth. That volatility is most likely worsening an already difficult situation for lower-end electronics makers and component suppliers in China.
本周，因为不断贬值的人民币和日渐下滑的经济增速引发的担忧，中国股市遭受重创。这种波动很有可能会让中国低端电子产品厂商和器件供应商本就困难的处境进一步恶化。
While China’s largest hardware brands and booming Internet companies tend to attract media attention, the country also has huge numbers of companies that support the electronics supply chain. With low margins and inconsistent orders, many are highly exposed to slowdowns in the worldwide demand for electronics.
尽管引起媒体关注的往往是中国最大的硬件品牌和兴兴向荣的互联网公司，但该国也有大量支持电子产品供应链的公司。因为利润低、订单不稳定，这些公司中很多都极易受世界范围内电子产品需求放缓的影响。
The headwinds were highlighted again on Friday, when the Taiwanese electronics manufacturing giant Foxconn said that December revenue was 20 percent lower than it was last December. The company operates a number of city-size production facilities in China.
周五，当台湾电子产品制造巨头富士康称其12月的收入同比下降20%时，这种衰退再次被突显了出来。富士康在大陆有很多规模堪比一座城市的生产厂。
In another indication of the pressures on manufacturing in recent months, the China Labor Bulletin said in a recent report that there had been a “massive upsurge” in worker strikes and protests during the second half of 2015. Tracing the uptick in disputes to market turmoil last summer, the organization said it had tracked twice as many incidents in 2015 as it had in 2014.
制造业在最近几个月面临压力的另一个迹象是，中国劳工通讯(China Labor Bulletin)在最近的一份报告中称，2015年下半年，工人罢工和抗议“大幅增加”。该组织称其发现，2015年的纠纷事件是2014年的两倍，并将纠纷的增加归咎于去年夏天的市场动荡。
The new fund seems to resemble a separate multibillion-dollar fund, announced in 2014, to provide financing and enable acquisitions to increase the size and sophistication of the country’s semiconductor industry. In a speech, Zhou Zixue, who leads the industry group overseeing the new fund, emphasized the importance of market forces, using language similar to that used in announcing the semiconductor fund.
新基金似乎类似于2014年宣布成立的另一个价值数十亿美元的基金。那项基金旨在通过提供资金和促成并购，提升中国半导体行业的规模和先进程度。在发言中，负责管理新基金的相关行业组织负责人周子学强调了市场力量的重要性。他的措辞和宣布半导体行业基金时类似。
Mr. Zhou, who is the chairman of the Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, also said that the new fund would support “supply side” policies. That phrase, recently popular though less than precise, is usually used by Chinese economic policy makers to emphasize reducing excess manufacturing capacity and moving toward a more consumption-driven economy.
身为中芯国际集成电路制造有限公司董事长的周子学还表示，新基金将支持“供给侧”政策。这个说法尽管不那么明确，但最近很流行。中国的经济政策制定者通常会用它来强调减少过剩的产能，并向更加以消费为驱动的经济发展。
Still, Mr. Zhou said that the financing would be used to develop advanced technologies and support companies that are facing financing difficulties, an indication that it might not ultimately lead to a reduction in China’s huge number of low-cost electronics manufacturers.
然而，周子学表示，这笔资金将被用来发展先进技术和支持面临资金困难的公司。这一迹象表明，该基金最终可能不会缩小中国庞大的低成本电子产品制造商规模。
Over the last year, the semiconductor fund has been used to finance a number of strategic investments and acquisitions in foreign chip companies. Foreign trade groups have said it gives unfair advantage to Chinese companies and is a tool of Beijing’s industrial policies. It is unclear whether the new fund will be used to support acquisitions.
去年，半导体行业的那项基金被大量用于战略投资以及收购外国芯片公司。外国行业团体称，该基金让中国公司获得了不公平的优势，是实施北京的工业政策的一项工具。尚不清楚新基金会不会被用来支持企业收购。
