Agents of Spain’s national police force raided the Madrid offices of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China as part of an investigation into money laundering and tax fraud by Chinese gangs.
西班牙国民警卫队(Guardia Civil)警员搜查了中国工商银行(ICBC)马德里分行办公室，这是针对中国犯罪团伙洗钱和税务欺诈的调查的一部分。
The Guardia Civil action, dubbed Operation Shadow and involving 100 law-enforcement officers, follows a wide-ranging police raid in May last year known as Operation Snake in which 60 businesses and houses were searched in Madrid, Barcelona, and Valencia. More than ㄠ洀 in cash was seized and 31 people detained as part of a contraband ring that imported untaxed goods to be sold at artificially low prices in Spain.
此次行动被称为“影子行动”(Operation Shadow)，有100名警员参与了行动。去年5月，西班牙警方曾展开名为“蛇行动”(Operation Snake)的大规模搜查，位于马德里、巴塞罗那和瓦伦西亚的60家企业和机构被搜查。那次搜查没收了逾100万欧元现金并拘留了一个走私团伙中的31人，他们将未纳税商品运送入境，以人为低价在西班牙销售。
The Guardia Civil initially estimated that the group involved in Operation Snake had committed import tax fraud worth ㄠ4m and helped launder 300m.
西班牙国民警卫队最初估计，“蛇行动”调查的这个团伙参与了1400万欧元的进口税欺诈，并帮助洗钱3亿欧元。
Spain’s tax authority and Europol were involved in Wednesday’s raids in which five employees of China’s largest bank were detained. Armed police guarded the doors of the bank on Wednesday in Madrid’s upscale Recoletos neighbourhood, not far from Spain’s National Library.
西班牙税务当局以及欧洲刑警组织(Europol)参与了周三的搜查，中国工行5名员工被拘留。周三，有警察持枪把守着工行位于马德里高档社区雷科莱托斯(Recoletos)的分行大门，这里距离西班牙国家图书馆(National Library)不远。
In a statement released following the raid, the Guardia Civil said it was suspected the bank “helped introduce into the financial system funds earned through alleged crimes of smuggling, tax fraud and workers rights violations, making possible the transfer of the funds to China in a way that gave them the appearance of being sufficiently legal”.
在搜查后发布的一份声明中，西班牙国民警卫队表示，怀疑工行“帮助将涉嫌走私、税务欺诈以及侵犯劳工权利等犯罪行为的所得引入了金融系统，使得这些资金能够以表面看来足够合法的方式转账到中国”。
The group of criminals used ICBC to transfer money made in the import scheme from Spain to China, the Guardia Civil said. So far, the national police says it has uncovered 40m in undeclared money laundered by the group through ICBC.
西班牙国民警卫队表示，这个犯罪团伙利用了工行将这个入境计划所得从西班牙转账到中国。西班牙国民警卫队表示，目前已发现该犯罪团伙通过工行洗白了4000万欧元未申报资金。
