Anbang Insurance Group and local competitors are being examined by China's insurance regulator as concerns grow about the sector’s aggressive investment policies. 
由于保险行业激进的投资政策引起的担忧加剧，安邦保险集团(Anbang Insurance Group)及其国内竞争对手正在接受中国保险监管机构的调查。
The order to inspect Anbang, along with Shenzhen-based Funde Sino Life Insurance and at least one other group comes from the highest echelons of the central government, according to a person with close ties to Beijing. 
一位与北京方面联系密切的人士表示，调查安邦、总部位于深圳的富德生命人寿(Funde Sino Life Insurance)以及至少另一家保险集团的命令，来自中央政府最高层。
Anbang has been on an overseas acquisition spree that includes the $2bn purchase of New York’s Waldorf Astoria hotel, a $6.5bn deal to buy Strategic Hotels & Resorts and an unsuccessful $14bn bid for Starwood Hotels & Resorts.
安邦一直在大举进行海外并购，包括以20亿美元收购纽约的华尔道夫酒店(Waldorf Astoria hotel)，以65亿美元收购Strategic Hotels & Resorts，以及未成功的140亿美元竞购喜达屋酒店及度假村国际集团(Starwood Hotels & Resorts)。
Caixin, a respected business news website, reported earlier this week that the China Insurance Regulatory Commission had dispatched an "investigation and research team" to Anbang's offices to learn more about the company's business. 
本周早些时候，中国颇受尊敬的商业新闻网站财新网(Caixin)报道称，中国保监会(CIRC)已派出一个“调研组”前往安邦，了解这家公司的业务。
The focus of the CIRC examination is not clear.
中国保监会的调查焦点尚不清楚。
But it comes at a time when some investors have been asking questions about how the Chinese insurance industry has been financing its acquisitions.
但进行调查之际，投资者一直在质疑中国保险业收购资金来源的问题。
Funde did not answer calls seeking comment. The CIRC declined to comment by phone and did not respond to faxed questions.
富德生命人寿没有回答记者要求置评的电话。中国保监会拒绝通过电话置评，也没有回复传真问题。
Representatives of Anbang declined to comment.
安邦的代表拒绝评论。
Many Chinese insurers have used rapid premium growth in recent years to fund illiquid investments both in the country and abroad. A large amount of these premiums comes from short-term, high-yielding policies that are more like wealth management products than protection policies. This business model creates the risk that insurers won't have enough cash on hand to meet promised payouts. 
近年来，中国许多保险商利用快速增长的保费，在国内外发起流动性不够强的投资。这些保费中的很大部分来自短期高收益保单，这类保单更像理财产品，而不像保障性保单。这一商业模式产生一种风险，即保险商手头没有足够的现金支付承诺收益。
The inspections of Anbang and Funde appear to be part of a broad regulatory enforcement campaign by the CIRC. Last week the agency published a notice on its website criticising several insurers for failing to disclose related-party transactions.
对安邦和富德生命人寿的调查，看来是中国保监会发起的一次宏观监管执法行动的一部分。上周，中国保监会在其网站上发布了一项通报，对几家未能披露关联交易的保险商提出了批评。
Caixin has separately reported that the CIRC had decided to enter Funde after receiving allegations that a senior executive had improperly transferred assets. In statement posted on its website late Monday, Funde denied the allegation against its executive and said it would "actively cooperate" with any regulatory investigation. 
财新网还报道称，保监会决定去富德生命人寿的起因，是收到的一封关于富德生命人寿某高管涉嫌转移资产的举报信。周一晚，富德生命人寿在其网站上挂出声明，否认其高管受到举报，并表示愿“积极配合”监管调查。
The CIRC inspections also follow Anbang’s decision to withdraw its Starwood bid largely due to doubts about whether the insurer could gain Chinese regulatory approval for an overseas deal of that size.
中国保监会的调查也紧随着安邦放弃并购喜达屋的决定。放弃的主要原因，在于这家保险商能否在规模如此大的海外并购案上获得中国监管层的批准，引发了怀疑。
Recently, European regulators have blocked potential Chinese acquisitions of banks and insurers, in part out of concern over high debt levels used to finance the potential deals.
近来，欧洲监管机构已否决了几起中国企业对银行和保险商的收购案，原因是对高额举债支持潜在交易感到担心。
