China’s parliament has passed a controversial counter terrorism law, sweeping aside earlier criticism of some of its provisions by western governments and business lobbies.
中国立法机构通过了一部有争议的反恐法律，没有理会西方国家政府和商界游说团体此前对其中一些规定提出的批评。
The official Xinhua news agency reported on Sunday that the law had been passed unanimously by the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, saying it was intended to “address terrorism at home and help maintain global world security”. A final draft of the law was not immediately available.
官方的新华社周日报道全国人大常委会全票通过了这部法律，称该法旨在应对国内恐怖主义和帮助维持世界安全。新华社受权发布了中国《反恐怖主义法》全文。
Earlier this year, US President Barack Obama expressed concern about draft provisions in the law that could force foreign information technology groups to provide the Chinese government with “back door” access to their products, encryption codes and other sensitive information.
今年早些时候，美国总统巴拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)表达了对该法草案中某些规定的担忧，这些规定可能迫使外国信息技术集团向中国政府提供访问其产品、加密代码和其他敏感信息的“后门”。
Li Shouwei, an NPC official involved in drafting the law, said that it “is basically the same as what other major countries do” and would not undermine companies’ intellectual property rights.
参与制定该法的全国人大常委会法制工作委员会刑法室副主任李寿伟表示，这种做法“是同世界上主要一些国家的规定基本一致的”，不会损害企业的知识产权。
Chinese officials have consistently rebuffed such criticism, arguing that the country faces a clear and present terrorist threat, especially in the northwestern region of Xinjiang. They allege that some members of the region’s large community of Muslim Uighurs, inspired by groups such as the Taliban and Isis, have waged a violent “separatist” campaign in pursuit of an independent homeland.
中国官员一直拒绝此类批评，辩称中国面临明确和现实的恐怖主义威胁，尤其是在西北的新疆地区。他们声称，新疆庞大的维吾尔族穆斯林人群的某些成员受塔利班和“伊拉克和黎凡特伊斯兰国”(ISIS)影响，发动暴力的“分裂”运动，目的是追求疆独。
Some of these attacks have occurred well beyond Xinjiang, including one in the centre of Beijing two years ago. On Saturday, China’s foreign ministry said it would expel a French journalist who recently wrote an article critical of Beijing’s comparison of Uighur attacks on Chinese civilians to the massacres recently perpetrated by Isis or Isis sympathisers in Paris and California.
其中一些恐怖攻击发生在距离新疆很远的地方，包括两年前在北京市中心发生的一起恐袭。上周六，中国外交部宣布驱逐一名法国记者，后者最近写了一篇文章，批评北京方面把维吾尔人攻击汉族平民的行为与ISIS或ISIS同情者最近在巴黎和加州犯下的血腥暴行相提并论。
On Thursday, western embassies said they had received intelligence about “possible threats” against foreigners in one of Beijing’s main shopping areas, although they did not specify the nature of the threats. After the alert, “snow leopard” commandos and members of other elite Chinese military units maintained a visible presence in both the San Li Tun shopping district and nearby embassy areas throughout the weekend.
上周四，西方各国使馆表示，他们接到了关于外国人在北京的一个主要购物区面临“可能威胁”的情报，尽管他们没有说明这些威胁的性质。警报拉响后，“雪豹”突击队和中国其它精锐部队的小分队整个周末在三里屯商圈和附近的使馆区高调执勤。
The antiterrorism law is the latest in a series of security-related bills working their way through China’s parliament.
《反恐法》是中国立法机构近来审议的一系列安全法案中最新的一部。
In July, the National People’s Congress passed a sweeping new national security law that mandated the country’s internet infrastructure be “secure and controllable”.
今年7月，全国人大通过了包罗万象的新版《国家安全法》，该法要求使中国互联网基础设施“安全可控”。
Chinese legislators are also considering a new law regulating the activities of domestic and foreign non-governmental organisations, which many critics see as part of a larger crackdown.
中国的立法者还正在考虑一部规范国内外非政府组织(NGO)活动的新法，很多批评人士视其为全面打压的一部分。
Police in southern Guangdong province recently detained Zeng Feiyang, the head of a worker rights group, alleging that his organisation had accepted overseas funding and “disturbed public order” by advising workers engaged in industrial disputes. While it is not currently illegal for Chinese NGOs to accept overseas funding, the new law could give police power to restrict such funding in future.
在南方的广东省，警方最近拘留了一个劳工维权团体的负责人曾飞扬，声称他的组织接受了境外资金，并通过向陷入劳资纠纷的工人提供咨询，构成“扰乱公共秩序”。尽管目前中国非政府组织接受境外资助并不违法，但新法可能授予警方限制此类资金的权力。
China’s banking regulator and industries ministry had previously issued regulations that contained provisions similar to those in the draft Counter Terrorism Law. The regulations would have imposed similar requirements on companies that sell computers, networking equipment and ATMs to Chinese financial institutions, but implementation of the rules was postponed after protests from foreign business lobbies.
中国银行业监管机构和工信部此前发布了类似于反恐法草案规定的法规。这些法规本来要对向中国金融机构销售电脑、网络设备和自动取款机的企业实行类似的要求，但在外国商业游说团体提出抗议后暂缓实施。
Chinese bank executives also said privately that the regulations could prevent them from buying the best information technology equipment available, potentially threatening the stability of their networks.
中国的银行业高管私下表示，相关法规可能使他们买不到市场上最好的信息技术设备，可能威胁他们所用网络的稳定性。IEC 61938 (formerly IEC268- 15) calls for an intermediate-impedance source of 120 ohms and a source voltage of 5 V rms, which provide reasonably satisfactory performance (sound level, frequency response, distortion) with headphones of any impedance over the range of 8 to 600 ohms at least.
