China’s independentrefineries are becoming more assertive in global oil trading, procuring largervolumes of crude and buying it directly from the market.
中国的独立炼油厂在全球石油交易中正变得更加自信，它们加大原油采购量，并直接从市场购买。
The country’s so-called “teapot”refineriesreceived some of the first import licenses last year as Beijing moved to boostinvestment in the energy industry, which has long been dominated by state oilcompanies Sinopec and PetroChina.
这些所谓的“茶壶”炼油厂去年获得首批进口许可证，其背景是北京方面采取行动促进能源业投资；该行业长期由中石化(Sinopec)和中石油(PetroChina)等大型国企主导。
The teapots — which, despite theirnickname, can be substantial buyers, together representing about a third ofChina’s total oil refining capacity — have moved quickly to strike deals withsome of the world’s largest crude exporters and are finding ways to procure oilthat bypasses international trading houses.
尽管被称为茶壶，但中国的独立炼油厂有些是相当大的买家，它们合起来占中国炼油总产能大约三分之一。这些企业迅速行动起来，与世界上一些最大的原油出口企业达成交易，并设法绕过国际贸易公司采购石油。
Last month Shandong ChambroadPetrochemicals Company bought a spot cargo of crude oil directly from SaudiAramco the state oil company of Opec’s de facto leaderand the world’s largest exporter of crude.
上月，山东京博石化公司(Shandong Chambroad Petrochemicals Company)向沙特阿拉伯国家石油公司(SaudiAramco)直接购买一批现货原油。沙特是石油输出国组织（OPEC，中文简称“欧佩克”）事实上的领导者，全球最大原油出口国。
Now, the company —one of 11independent refineries permitted to import crude —will be the firstteapot to trade on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange as it looks to hedge itsimports and buy physical cargoes from Oman.
现在，山东京博（获准进口原油的11家独立炼油厂之一）将成为在迪拜商品交易所(Dubai Mercantile Exchange)进行交易的首家茶壶。该公司正寻求对冲自己的进口，并从阿曼购买实物原油。
This approach by Shandong Chambroad, saysome industry participants, suggests a shift away from the use of middlemen,whether it is big international oil traders or China’s domesticoil industry giants.
一些业内人士提出，山东京博的这种做法似乎表明，中国民营炼油厂试图绕过中间商，无论是大型国际石油交易商还是中国国内的石油业巨擘。
The DME said the exchange will beapproaching more independent Chinese refineries in the coming weeks and plansto hold a roundtable in the country in mid-May “to assist otherlocal participants”. 
迪拜商品交易所表示，将在未来几周接洽更多的中国独立炼油厂，并计划在5月中旬在中国举办一场圆桌讨论会，“以协助其他当地参与者”。
