A group of Chinese investors has offered 6 per share to buy Aixtron, valuing the German supplier of semiconductor equipment at about 670m.
一组中国投资者提出以每股6欧元收购爱思强(Aixtron)，对这家德国半导体设备供应商的估值约为6.7亿欧元。
Aixtron, which makes equipment used in LED lighting, said yesterday that it had agreed to a takeover by Grand Chip Investment, the German arm of Fujian Grand Chip Investment Fund.
爱思强专业制造用于LED照明的设备。该公司昨日表示，同意接受中国芯片投资基金Fujian Grand Chip Investment Fund(FGC)的德国子公司Grand Chip Investment的收购要约。
The group is controlled by Zhendong Liu, who owns 51 per cent of the fund. Xiamen Bohao Investment owns the remaining 49 per cent.
该集团由刘振东控股，他持有该基金51%的股份。厦门投资公司Xiamen Bohao Investment持有其余49%的股份。
Under the terms of the agreement, Aixtron shareholders will be offered 6 in cash per ordinary share, nearly 24 per cent more than Aixtron’s closing share price of 4.86 per share on Friday. The deal represents a 51 per cent premium over Aixtron’s three-month weighted average share price.
根据协议条款，爱思强股东持有的每普通股将得到6欧元现金，比爱思强上周五收盘时的每股4.86欧元高出近24%。相比爱思强过去3个月加权平均股价，上述报价代表着51%的溢价。
Shares in the German equipment maker were up 15 per cent yesterday afternoon, following news of the agreement.
爱思强同意接受收购的新闻传出后，这家德国芯片制造商的股价昨日下午上涨15%。
Aixtron said its legal domicile and headquarters would remain in Herzogenrath. Martin Goetzeler, chief executive, and Bernd Schulte, chief operating officer, would remain at the company in their current roles.
爱思强称，其法定注册地址和总部将仍然位于黑尔措根拉特(Herzogenrath)。其首席执行官马丁•格特策勒(Martin Goetzeler)及首席运营官贝恩德•许尔特(Bernd Schulte)将在该公司继续担任目前职位。
Grand Chip Investment is expected to appoint four representatives to Aixtron’s six-member supervisory board once the deal is complete.
一旦交易完成，Grand Chip Investment预计将在爱思强六人监事会中任命4名代表。
The takeover is subject to shareholder approval and regulatory conditions being met.
该交易需要得到股东的批准，并需要满足监管条件。
Kim Schindelhauer, Aixtron chairman, said yesterday that the current board members “fully support this transaction, as it provides immediate value to our shareholders while enabling Aixtron to bring their new products to market”.
爱思强董事长吉姆•申德尔豪尔(Kim Schindelhauer)昨天表示，目前的董事会成员“完全支持该交易，因为它为我们的股东提供了直接价值，同时使得爱思强能够将新产品推向市场”。
Mr Schindelhauer added: “With FGC, we have found a partner that will provide local market insights to support our business objectives in Asia.”
Aixtron said the two companies “view the transaction as an opportunity to expand the company and its workforce and have agreed that the transaction is not directed towards cost or staff reductions”.
爱思强称，两家公司“将该交易视为一次扩大公司及其员工队伍的机会，并同意这笔交易不会带来削减成本或裁员。”
Last month Aixtron reported worse than expected results for the three months to the end of March, with revenues falling 47 per cent from the same time in 2015, to 21.4m.
上月，爱思强报告截至3月底的3个月期间业绩逊于预期，营收较2015年同期下滑47%，至2140万欧元。
Net losses widened to 15.5m for the period, compared to 9.5m last year.
同期净亏损扩大至1550万欧元，而去年同期为950万欧元。
The disappointing first-quarter results came four months after the equipment maker suffered its worst day in 16 years upon losing its largest customer.
在第一季度令人失望的财报公布的4个月前，这家设备制造商失去了其最大的客户，遭受了创立16年以来最艰难的一天。
Last December Aixtron said China group Sanan Optoelectronics had cancelled its orders, forcing Aixtron to cut its full-year sales guidance and sending the shares down as much as 43 per cent in a day.
去年12月，爱思强表示中资集团三安光电(Sanan Optoelectronics)取消了订单，迫使爱思强削减了全年销售指引，其股价当日暴跌43%。
