The US has ended a 50-year arms emb-argo on communist Vietnam in the latest push to strengthen opposition to Chinese territorial ambitions in Asia’s seas.
美国已宣布结束为期50年的对共产党统治的越南的军火禁运。这是美国以更大力度对抗中国对亚洲海域领土企图的最新举动。
Barack Obama used yesterday’s first full day of a visit to Hanoi, the Vietnamese capital, to announce that the US was lifting the weapons sales ban and hoped for growing co-operation between the two countries’ militaries.
在昨日对越南首都河内展开首个全天访问期间，巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)宣布美国将解除对越武器销售禁令，并希望加强两国军队之间的合作。
Analysts said the US president’s decision to sweep away this “lingering vestige of the cold war” was a sign that both states considered their shared aim of checking Beijing more important than mutual suspicions.
分析人士表示，美国总统决定扫除这一“挥之不去的冷战遗迹”表明，两国认为它们制衡北京方面的共同目标比相互猜忌更为重要。
A US “pivot to Asia” comes after a long journey from the Southeast Asian war of the 1960s and 1970s that pitted communist North Vietnam against Washington and its south Vietnamese allies.
在1960年代至1970年代的那场东南亚战争过去很久之后，美国启动了“重返亚洲”战略。那场战争的一方是北越，另一方是美国及其南越盟友。
“The end of the arms embargo indicates a stronger rapprochement bet-ween the two former enemies,” said Le Hong Hiep, a research fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies, a Singapore think-tank.
“美国解除对越军火禁运表明，这对宿敌之间的关系加强了，”新加坡智库东南亚研究所(Institute of Southeast Asian Studies)研究员黎洪和(Le Hong Hiep)表示。
“The relationship between Hanoi and Washington is now fully normalised, and they are more ready now to step up their strategic co-operation, especially in the South China Sea, where their interests converge.”
“如今，河内与华盛顿之间实现了关系正常化，它们现在更加愿意加强战略合作，尤其在双方利益一致的南中国海问题上。”
Tran Dai Quang, Vietnam’s president, thanked his US counterpart for lifting the embargo.
越南国家主席陈大光(Tran Dai Quang)就美国解除对越军火禁运对奥巴马表示了感谢。
Mr Obama said the US and Vietnam had “developed a level of trust and co-operation”.
奥巴马表示，美越之间已经“发展了一定程度的信任与合作”。
Yesterday’s announcement came after news that the US was in talks to position military equipment in Vietnam for the first time since Saigon fell in 1975 to the North.
昨日美国宣布解除对越军火禁运之前，有报道称，美国正与越南进行谈判，拟在1975年西贡落入北越之手以来第一次在越南存放军事装备。
Landmarks in Hanoi, where the announcement was made, include the imposing mausoleum of Ho Chi Minh, founder of the Vietnamese Communist party and inspiration of the North’s war effort.
奥巴马在河内作出上述宣布，该市的地标性建筑包括雄伟的胡志明纪念馆。胡志明是越共的创立者，也是北越发动战争的推手。
The US president’s Southeast Asian trip comes after Nguyen Phu Trong became the first Vietnam Communist party general secretary to visit the White House last year.
美国总统出访东南亚之前，去年阮富仲(Nguyen Phu Trong)成为首位访问美国白宫的越共中央总书记。
The rise of China has hastened a thaw in US-Vietnam relations that began in earnest when Bill Clinton’s administration ended a long-running US trade embargo in 1994.
中国的崛起加快了美越关系解冻。1994年比尔•克林顿(Bill Clinton)政府终止一项长期的美国对越贸易禁运后，两国关系开始积极解冻。
Fears are rising in Vietnam and other Asian countries about Beijing’s growing military and its efforts to claim disputed territory by building islands in the region’s seaways.
在越南和其他亚洲国家，人们对北京方面不断强大的军力，以及通过在亚洲海上航道造岛来声索争议领土的努力越来越担心。
Those worries have given the US the chance to strengthen security relationships in states in strategic points around Asia.
这些担忧使美国有机会与地处亚洲战略要地的国家加强安全关系。
US aircraft and ships have returned on a semi-permanent basis to the Philippines for the first time in more than two decades, while new guidelines have allowed for closer co-operation with Japan.
美国战机和军舰在时隔20多年后首次半永久性地返回菲律宾，而美日也发布了加强合作的新指针。
The scrapping of the Vietnam arms embargo, which had been partly lifted in 2014, is unlikely to lead Hanoi to lobby for large orders of heavy weapons straight away.
美国全面解除对越军火禁运（2014年已部分解除），不太可能导致越南马上游说进口大批重型武器。
Instead targets in the short term could include radar systems, patrol boats and other items that would improve Vietnam’s ability to monitor and maintain a presence in important seaways.
相反，越南在近期的进口目标可能包括雷达系统、巡逻艇以及其他提升越南在重要航道上实施监控和维持存在能力的装备。
Analysts said the government in Hanoi would be wary of antagonising China, on which Vietnam depends heavily for imports. The neighbours have a complex relationship, which includes political and cultural ties as well as formal partnerships relating to military and civilian security.
分析人士称，河内方面将谨防激怒中国，该国对中国进口的依赖程度很深。这两个邻国之间的关系很复杂，既包括政治与文化关系，也包括军事与民事安全方面的正式合作。
