Hong Kong — The China National Chemical Corporation said on Monday that it would buy the KraussMaffei Group, a German manufacturer of plastics and rubber processing machinery, for about $1 billion.
香港——中国化工集团公司周一宣布，将出资约10亿美元，收购德国塑料和橡胶加工机械制造商克劳斯玛菲集团(KraussMaffei Group)。
The state-owned China National Chemical, known as ChemChina, has formed a consortium with the Guoxin International Investment Corporation and AGIC Capital to pay 925 million euros for KraussMaffei. The German company is owned by Onex, a Canadian private equity firm, and the sale is the biggest investment by a Chinese company in a German one.
中国化工集团公司是一家国有企业，简称中化。该公司与国新国际投资有限公司、汉德资本(AGIC Capital)联合出资9.25亿欧元收购克劳斯玛菲。克劳斯玛菲的所有人是加拿大私募股权公司Onex。这笔交易是中国公司对德国企业进行的最大一笔投资。
“The KraussMaffei Group has significant development potential, especially in the important China market,” Ren Jianxin, the chairman of ChemChina, said in a news release. “We highly respect and trust its outstanding management team and superior Germany manufacturing technology, as well as high-end brands. We will retain the current management and employees and maintain the current corporate structure.”
“克劳斯玛菲集团的发展潜力是巨大的，特别是在重要的中国市场，”中化董事长任建新在新闻稿中说。“我们看中的是该公司杰出的管理层和德国制造的技术专长。我们将保留现有的管理层和员工，保持现有的企业结构。”
“The growth potential of the KraussMaffei Group is tremendous,” the release continued, “especially through improved access to the Chinese market, which we can make possible. We expect trends in the automotive industry toward advanced manufacturing and lightweight components will provide a huge development opportunity for the high-end plastic injection molding industry.”
“克劳斯玛菲集团的增长潜力是巨大的，”新闻稿接着说。“尤其考虑到我们能帮助开拓和增强其在中国市场的渠道。今后汽车业智能化、轻质化的发展趋势也将为新型高端塑化材料的注型业和装备业提供巨大的发展空间。”
The deal follows a record year for Chinese outbound investment, with 136 deals worth $31.3 billion in 2015, according to data from the deal tracking firm Dealogic.
在这笔交易之前，中国的对外投资迎来了创纪录的一年。从交易追踪公司Dealogic的数据来看，2015年中国的对外投资共达成了136笔交易，涉及资金313亿美元。
ChemChina, one of China’s largest chemical companies, has been on a buying spree, snapping up stakes in chemical, machinery and transport companies domestically and outside China. In March 2015, it purchased a 26 percent stake in Pirelli, the Italian tire maker, and it has been trying to woo Syngenta, the Swiss pesticide company.
作为中国最大的化工企业之一，中化开启了收购狂潮，争先抢购国内外化学、机械和运输公司的股份。2015年3月，该公司收购了加拿大轮胎生产商倍耐力(Pirelli)26%的股份。此外它还一直在努力争取瑞士杀虫剂公司Syngenta。
Frank Stieler, KraussMaffei’s chief executive, said the company expected to grow more quickly in China and Asia as part of ChemChina.
克劳斯玛菲集团首席执行官弗兰克·斯蒂勒(Frank Stieler)表示，在成为中化的一部分后，预计公司在中国和亚洲的增长会更快。
“Accelerated growth will have a sustained positive impact for the Company globally,” Mr. Stieler said in a news release. “Our Company has a strong foundation, and we will continue to build on our strengths, and create new jobs around the world.”
“加速的发展将使集团在全球范围内产生持久的正面影响。借助于我们全面的专业知识，我们拥有坚实的基础，并以此建立我们自己的优势。我们将在全球创造就业位置。”
The Onex Group bought KraussMaffei for 276 million in December 2012 and will receive 670 million when the deal is completed.
2012年12月收购克劳斯玛菲时，Onex集团花了2.76亿欧元。这笔交易完成时，该公司将获利6.70亿欧元。
