China’s foreign minister fired a pre-emptive shot at G7 leaders gathering in Japan on Thursday, warning them not to “escalate tensions” over territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas.
周四，中国外交部向在日本出席峰会的七国集团(G7)领导人发出预警，告诫他们不要在南中国海和东中国海领土争端问题上“加剧地区紧张局势”。
Last month, foreign ministers from the G7 angered Beijing by issuing a thinly veiled statement critical of its “island building” activities in the South China Sea over recent years. The issue is expected to be raised again as G7 heads of state and prime ministers begin two days of discussions in Ise-Shima.
上月，G7外长发表了一份几乎不加掩饰地批评中国近几年在南中国海“造岛”活动的声明，此举令中国颇为恼火。在G7领导人于伊势志摩(Ise-Shima)展开为期两天的讨论时，这一话题预计会再次被提出。
“We hope the G7 will focus on urgent economic and financial matters,” Wang Yi said at a briefing in Beijing. “We do not want to see actions that escalate tensions in the region.”
王毅在北京的一个吹风会上表示：“我们希望G7将注意力放在迫切的经济和金融问题上。我们不希望G7的讨论加剧地区紧张局势。”
During a visit to Vietnam just ahead of the G7 summit, US President Barack Obama lifted a longstanding ban on arm sales to Hanoi. Vietnam and the Philippines are engaged in a number of territorial disputes with Beijing in the South China Sea, where the Chinese military has recently completed airstrips and other infrastructure on contested reefs and islets.
在G7峰会前夕访问越南时，美国总统巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)解除了对越南长期实施的军售禁令。越南和菲律宾在南中国海与中国陷入多起领土争端。在南中国海，中国军队近期在数个有争议的岛礁上完成了飞机跑道及其他基础设施的建设。
Manila has successfully rallied international support through its decision to challenge China’s actions in a tribunal at The Hague — an international legal challenge that Beijing has refused to recognise.
菲律宾政府决定在海牙一个仲裁庭挑战中方的行动，此举成功地争取到了国际社会的支持。中国政府已表示拒绝承认这一国际仲裁的结果。
Even UK prime minister David Cameron, who has said he wants to be China’s “best friend” in the west, urged Beijing to be part of a “rules-based world” and “abide by these adjudications”.
即使是曾表态想作中国在西方“最佳伙伴”的戴维•卡梅伦(David Cameron)，也敦促中国成为“基于规则的世界”的一部分，“遵守此类仲裁”。
John Kerry, US secretary of state, said the lifting of the Vietnam arms embargo was not aimed at China, despite an increasing number of close encounters between the two countries’ militaries.
尽管美中两国军队近距离遭遇不断增多，但美国国务卿约翰•克里(John Kerry)表示，解除对越南的武器禁运并非针对中国。
The Pentagon recently complained that People’s Liberation Army jet fighters conducted a dangerously close intercept of a US spy aircraft. This week Chinese state media reported that US and Japanese naval vessels had kept a close eye on PLA Navy exercises in the western Pacific.
最近五角大楼抱怨称，中国人民解放军(PLA)的战斗机曾对美国侦察机展开距离近得危险的拦截。本周，中国官方媒体报道称，美日海军舰艇曾密切监视解放军海军在西太平洋的演习。
Chinese officials fear that Japan and the US will use this week’s G7 meeting to further isolate Beijing over its increasingly assertive posture in the region. The two countries are also leading members of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a potential trading bloc that has pointedly excluded China from joining as an inaugural member.
中国官员们担心，日本和美国会针对中国在该地区日益强硬的姿态，利用本周的G7会议进一步孤立中国。日美两国还是《跨太平洋伙伴关系协定》(TPP)的主要成员国。这一潜在的贸易集团有意地避免中国以创始成员国身份加入进来。
In September Beijing will host Mr Obama, Mr Cameron and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at a G20 meeting of developed and developing economies in Hangzhou, where Mr Wang made clear that his government would not tolerate a debate over regional territorial disputes.
今年9月，中国政府将在杭州20国集团(G20)会议上接待奥巴马、卡梅伦及日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)。王毅明确表示，中国政府不会容忍在此次会议上讨论地区领土争端。
“The G20’s central task is to promote growth,” he said. “If some members want to discuss issues not related to the international economy in an attempt to raise tensions, we will not allow this to happen.”
