The Australian computer scientist claiming to be the enigmatic founder of bitcoin has backtracked on promises to prove his identity, claiming he did not have the “courage” to do so in the face of intense scrutiny.
自称是比特币神秘创始人的澳大利亚计算机科学家已收回证明自己身份的承诺，称在严密关注之下他没有“勇气”这样做。
Craig Wrighthad promised to provide evidence to support his claim earlier this week to have created bitcoin in 2008 using the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto. The announcement by the self-styled security expert sparked scepticism among tech experts globally, given the enduring mystery surrounding the creation of the crypto currency.
克雷格•赖特(Craig Wright)在本周早些时候称，他在2008年化名“中本聪”(Satoshi Nakamoto)创造了比特币，他曾承诺要提供证据支持这一说法。这位自称网络安全专家的公告引发了全球科技专家的怀疑，因为围绕这种加密货币的创造仍疑云密布。
In a blog post on his website entitled “I’m sorry”, Mr Wright said he was “not strong enough” to face allegations about his qualifications and character that were emerging. He said he would not now publish the proof that he has access to the keys to the digital currency.
赖特的网站上发表了一篇标题为“对不起”的博客文章，他在文中表示自己“不够坚强”，无法面对不断浮出水面的关于他的资历和性格的指控。他表示，他现在不会公布自己能够获取比特币秘钥的证据。
He acknowledged this would damage his supporters, including Gavin Andresen, the former chief scientist at the Bitcoin Foundation who has more recently begun to question his initial backing of Mr Wright’s claim.
他承认这会伤害到他的支持者，其中包括比特币基金会(Bitcoin Foundation)前首席科学家加文•安德烈森(Gavin Andresen)，安德烈森近日开始质疑自己最初对赖特声明的支持。
Jon Matonis, a founder of the Bitcoin Foundation, also supported Mr Wright. Yesterday, he appeared to stand by the Australian entrepreneur with a tweet that said: “There won’t be an on-chain signing from early bitcoin blocks, but there also won’t be another Satoshi.”
比特币基金会创始人乔恩•马托尼斯(Jon Matonis)依然支持赖特。昨天他在Twitter上发消息称，继续信任这位澳大利亚企业家：“不会出现早期比特币区块链的签名，但也不会出现另一个中本聪。”
Mr Wright said in his post: “They were not deceived but I know that the world will never believe me now.”
Mr Wright seems to suggest in the blog that he is sill standing by the claim, which is likely to fan speculation on the identity of the anonymous founder.
赖特似乎在博文中暗示他仍坚持这一声明，这可能会激起对匿名创始人身份的猜测。
“I believed that I could put the years of anonymity and hiding behind me. But as the events of this week unfolded and I prepared to publish the proof of access to the earliest keys, I broke. I do not have the courage. I cannot.”
“我曾相信我可以抛弃多年的匿名和隐藏。但随着本周事态的发展，随着我准备发表访问最早秘钥的证据，我垮掉了。我没有这个勇气。我做不到。”
Mr Wright had said he could show a transfer of bitcoin from “an early block” and “independently verifiable documents” after earlier evidence he provided was questioned as it bore similarity to a 2009 bitcoin transaction.
由于赖特较早前提供的证据被质疑与2009年一笔比特币交易相似，他曾表示可以展示从“一个早期区块”转移比特币，并提供“可独立验证的文档”。
