The US and China have agreed on a new UN resolution to place additional sanctions on North Korea in response to its latest nuclear and missile tests.
美国和中国已就进一步制裁朝鲜的联合国新决议达成一致，这些制裁是对朝鲜最新核试验和导弹试验的回应。
The US was due to present the draft resolution to the UN Security Council yesterday afternoon, US officials said, following seven weeks of intense debate between Beijing and Washington.
据美国官员表示，美国定于昨日下午将决议草案提交联合国安理会(UN Security Council)，此前北京和华盛顿之间进行了持续7周的激烈辩论。
The resolution is expected to add more North Korean government entities and individuals to the UN sanctions list, however, diplomats would not say if the text goes further in applying additional sanctions on Pyongyang.
预计该决议将把更多朝鲜政府实体和个人列入联合国制裁名单，但外交官们不愿说明决议文本会不会更进一步，对平壤方面施加更多制裁。
The agreement on a draft resolution reflects China’s growing frustration with its North Korean ally at its continued efforts to develop a nuclear weapon, however, western officials say that Beijing is still reluctant to inflict too much economic pressure on Pyongyang.
同意决议草案反映了中国对其朝鲜盟友开发核武器的持续努力日益不满，但西方官员们表示，北京方面仍不愿对平壤施加太大的经济压力。
The US has applied its own pressure on China to take a tougher line on North Korea by announcing the planned deployment of a missile defence system in South Korea that would have implications for China’s own armoury of conventional and nuclear missiles.
美国本身已对中国施压，要求中国对朝鲜采取更强硬立场——美国宣布计划在韩国部署一套导弹防御系统，该系统对中国自己的常规和核导弹力量具有潜在影响。
Wang Yi, China’s foreign minister, confirmed yesterday there would be a new UN resolution on North Korea. However, he sharply criticised the announcement about deploying the Terminal High-Altitude Air Defence platform in South Korea.
中国外长王毅昨日证实，联合国将通过针对朝鲜的新决议。不过，他尖锐批评在韩国部署末段高空区域防御系统(THAAD)平台的声明。
“China’s legitimate national security interests would be jeapordised and threatened,” he said on a visit to the US.
“中国的正当国家安全利益很可能会受到损害，甚至是威胁，”王毅在访问美国期间表示。
Even amid the signs of agreement, significant differences remained over Beijing and Washington’s version of what the two governments have agreed.
即便在达成一致的迹象中，北京和华盛顿对于两国政府同意了什么内容的表述仍存在显著差异。
Washington said the US and China “agreed on the importance of a strong and united international response to North Korea’s provocations, including through a UN Security Council resolution”, after Mr Wang met with US officials. “They agreed that they will not accept North Korea as a nuclear weapons state.”
王毅会晤美国官员后，华盛顿方面表示，美国与中国“一致同意针对朝鲜的挑衅作出强大而统一的国际回应的重要性，包括通过联合国安理会的决议……两国同意，他们将不接受朝鲜为核武国家。”
But an official from China’s foreign ministry had a different interpretation of the meetings, stressing China’s longstanding opposition to sanctions on Pyongyang.
但是，中国外交部的一名官员对中美官员的会晤作出不同解读，强调中国长期反对制裁平壤。
“A resolution is just around the corner,” she told a regular press briefing. “We hope that it can help stop [North Korea] from developing its nuclear and missile programme. At the same time we hope that the resolution and sanctions are not the fundamental way to resolve this issue — we hope that all parties can go back to the negotiating table.”
“目前联合国安理会涉朝新决议磋商已取得重要进展，有望很快达成一致，”她在例行记者会上表示。“我们希望并相信新决议有助于有效阻遏朝鲜核、导计划的进一步推进。同时，我愿再次强调，安理会决议本身并不能从根本上解决半岛核问题，希望各方最终回到通过对话谈判解决问题的轨道上来。”
China’s foreign ministry proposed yesterday for the first time that “de-nuclearisation” of the north be pursued in “parallel tracks” with negotiations for a formal peace with the south.
中国外交部昨日首次提出了实现朝鲜半岛“无核化”与半岛停和机制转换“并行推进”的思路。
