The man who turned China’s state-owned grain trader Cofco into an integrated agribusiness and led its overseas acquisition spree has been appointed chairman of Sinochem, the Chinese government announced yesterday.
中国政府昨日宣布，曾将中国国有谷物交易商中粮集团(COFCO)转型成一家综合性农业企业、并领导该集团进行一系列海外收购的宁高宁，已被任命为中化集团(Sinochem)董事长。
Ning Gaoning, who uses the name Frank and enjoys speaking English, oversaw the acquisition of Dutch trading company Nidera and most recently the agricultural arm of struggling Hong Kong-based energy and commodities trader Noble Group.
宁高宁使用弗兰克(Frank)这个英文名，喜欢说英语。他曾主导对荷兰交易企业Nidera的收购，而最近的例子则是对来宝集团(Noble Group)农业部门的收购。来宝集团是一家总部位于香港的能源和大宗商品交易商，目前陷于困境。
The deals, which gave Cofco a footprint in Southeast Asia and Latin America, were designed to put the company on a par with those that dominate the world grain trade. These include Cargill, Archer Daniels Midland, Bunge and Louis Dreyfus Commodities.
这些交易为中粮集团在东南亚和拉美留下了脚印，它们旨在令中粮集团与那些主导全球谷物交易的企业平起平坐。这些企业包括嘉吉(Cargill)、阿彻丹尼尔斯米德兰(Archer Daniels Midland, ADM)、邦吉(Bunge)和路易达孚(Louis Dreyfus Commodities)。
In December Mr Ning celebrated his 11th year as head of China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Co, or Cofco. During that time he transformed the company from a grains importer and exporter into an integrated food and dairy business that now makes wine and fruit juice and dominates China’s soyabean crushing industry.
2015年12月，宁高宁执掌中粮集团进入第11年。在他掌舵期间，中粮从一家谷物进出口商转型成一家综合性食品和乳品企业。目前，中粮集团还生产葡萄酒和果汁，并主导着中国的大豆榨油产业。
Cofco’s international expansion was part of wider strategy to build national champions to compete with western multinationals as well as helping secure more grain directly, reducing China’s reliance on international traders.
中粮集团在国际上的扩张是整体战略的一部分，目的是打造国家冠军企业，以便和西方跨国公司竞争，并帮助中国直接获取更多谷物，减少对国际交易商的依赖。
But expansion has not come without problems. Nidera suffered a significant loss in its biofuels business because of a rogue trader, while some analysts believe Cofco overpaid for Noble Agri.
然而，扩张的过程也不是毫无问题。Nidera曾因一名违规交易员的行为而在生物燃料业务上遭遇大额亏损，而一些分析师认为中粮集团为来宝农业(Noble Agri)支付的价码过高。
Mr Ning will also face challenges at Sinochem, the state-owned chemicals and fertiliser group, which is one of the country’s largest iron ore importers.
宁高宁在中化集团也将面临多种挑战。中化集团是一家国有的化工和化肥集团，也是中国最大的铁矿石进口商之一。
“His new post at the Sinochem showcases the central government’s determination to promote China’s agricultural industry,” said Ma Wenfeng, agricultural analyst at Beijing Orient Agriculture Consultancy.
北京东方艾格农业咨询有限公司(Beijing Orient Agribusiness Consultants)的农业分析师马文峰表示：“他在中化集团的新职位显示出中央政府促进中国农业产业发展的决心。”
“To improve China’s agricultural production level, it will need to promote the integration of the production of seeds, fertilisers, chemicals and machines.”
“要提高中国的农业生产水平，就必须加强种子、化肥、化学品和机械生产的整合。”
Mr Ma said Mr Ning was expected to oversee aggressive international and domestic mergers and acquisitions.
马文峰表示，预计宁高宁将在国际和国内领导一轮大刀阔斧的并购。
