While the rest of us would curtsy and formally call Britain's Queen Elizabeth, "Your Majesty," little Prince George has a more informal name for her. The chubby-cheeked toddler, who turns 3 this summer, has quite the close relationship with the monarch, his mother says.
尽管其他所有人都会恭敬正式地称呼英国伊丽莎白女王为“陛下”，但是乔治小王子对女王却有个更随意的称呼。据乔治的母亲说，这个今年夏天就要满三岁的胖嘟嘟的小王子和女王的关系非常亲密。
"George is only two-and-a-half and he calls her 'Gan-Gan,'" the prince's mother, Kate Middleton, the Duchess of Cambridge, said in an interview to celebrate the Queen's upcoming 90th birthday.
乔治小王子的母亲、剑桥公爵夫人凯特·米德尔顿在一次访谈中说：“乔治现在才两岁半，他叫她'甘甘'。”这次访谈是为了庆祝女王即将迎来90岁生日。
The Duchess revealed that the Queen has quite a soft spot for her great-grandson, the third in line to the throne.
公爵夫人透露说，女王对这个曾孙十分宠爱。乔治现在是英国王位第三顺位继承人。
"She always leaves a little gift or something in their room when we go and stay and that just shows her love for her family," the Duchess said.
凯特说，“每次我们去和女王同住，她总会在孩子们的房间里放一个小礼物，这个小细节展露了她对家人的爱。”
The interview was part of British television network ITV's upcoming documentary, "Our Queen At Ninety," which features interviews with several senior members of the Royal Family.
这一访谈是英国独立电视台即将播放的纪录片《我们的女王90岁》的一部分，该纪录片将包括和数位王室资深成员的访谈。
But George isn't the only beloved great-grandchild. The Queen was also thrilled at the birth of George's sister, Princess Charlotte, the Duchess said, and was one of the first family members to visit the newborn princess last year.
不过乔治并不是唯一受宠的曾孙。凯特说，去年乔治的妹妹夏洛特公主出生的时候女王也是喜不自胜，并且是最先来看望初生小公主的家庭成员之一。
Of course, Prince George and Princess Charlotte will never have the chance to meet their paternal grandma, the late Princess Diana, but her sons believe she would have been overjoyed by becoming a grandmother.
当然，乔治王子和夏洛特公主将永远不会有机会看见他们的奶奶——已故的戴安娜王妃，但是戴安娜的儿子们相信假如她能活到现在，一定会为当上祖母而狂喜不已。
"I hope she's looking down, you know, with tears in her eyes, being incredibly proud of what we've established, I suppose," Prince Harry said in a recent interview. "I'm sure she's longing for me to have kids so she can be a grandmother again."
哈里王子在近日的一次访谈中说道：“我希望她正在往下看，你知道的，我想她一定会眼含热泪，为我们的成家立业感到无比骄傲。我确信她也盼着我赶快生小孩，这样她就又能当奶奶了。”
