With a quilted coat and a light blue backpack, a boy who could one day be king set off Wednesday on his educational journey.
这个周三，一个穿着棉袄外套、背着淡蓝色书包的小朋友，开始了自己的求学之旅。而这个小朋友，也许有一天会成为国王哦。
KensingtonPalace, helpfully, then released two images of 2-year-old Prince George arriving for his first day at a preschool.
这是两岁的乔治小王子上幼儿园的第一天。肯辛顿宫非常贴心地贴出了两张小王子入学照。
The shots, taken by his mom Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, show the third in line to the British throne posing for the camera and marveling at a mural at the Westacre Montessori School. According to People, the school is a short drive from the family's country mansion, Anmer Hall.
照片是妈妈——剑桥公爵夫人凯瑟琳——拍的，摄于西亩蒙特梭利幼稚园。照片中，这位英国王室第三顺位继承人一会儿看着镜头，一会儿好奇地指着壁画。《人物》杂志称，该幼儿园距小王子家的乡村别墅“安墨堡”不远，开车很快就到。
Prince William and Duchess Catherine, who welcomed Princess Charlotte in May, announced last month that their golden-haired heir would begin school before the end of January.
今年5月，威廉王子和凯瑟琳王妃迎来了夏洛特小公主的出生。两人上月表示，家里的金发小王子将于1月末开始上学。
The school officials said they are "looking forward to welcoming George to our nursery where he will get the same special experience as all of our children."
幼儿园方面称，他们“非常期待小乔治的到来，将让他受到与其他小朋友一样的特殊照料”。
The family of four, who've been living in the countryside, have from time to time released images of their wee ones, several of which have been snapped by their mum.
威廉一家四口一直住在乡间，时不时地会放出家里小不点儿的照片，其中不少照片都是孩子妈妈拍的。
"The Duke and Duchess are of course very fortunate to have private homes where photographers cannot capture images of their children," said Jason Knauf, communications secretary for the Cambridges.
威廉家的公关大臣杰森·科奈夫表示：“公爵和公爵夫人当然很幸运，他们有自己的私人摄像师，可以在家里随时捕捉孩子们的生活瞬间。”
"But they feel strongly that both Prince George and Princess Charlotte should not grow up exclusively behind palace gates and in walled gardens. They want both children to be free to play in public and semi-public spaces with other children without being photographed. In addition, the privacy of those other children and their families must also be preserved."
“但他们也强烈地感觉到，乔治王子和夏洛特公主不应该在封闭的深院高墙内长大。他们希望两个孩子能与其他小朋友一起，在公开或半公开的环境下自由玩耍，不被偷拍。而且，其他小朋友及其家庭的隐私也应该不受侵犯。”
