 China’s flagship international development bank is hoping to pave a new Silk Road, with at least three of its initial projects focused on transport arteries in central Asia and Pakistan.
 中国的旗舰国际开发银行正希望铺设一条新的丝绸之路，其首批项目中至少有三个聚焦于中亚和巴基斯坦的交通要道。
 The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank will help fund a highway in Pakistan, an expressway from Tajikistan’s capital to the border with Uzbekistan, and a ring road in Almaty, Kazakhstan, according to people with knowledge of the projects and tender documents.
 据了解相关项目和招标文件的人士介绍，亚洲基础设施投资银行(AIIB)将帮助资助巴基斯坦的一条公路，从塔吉克斯坦首都至该国与乌兹别克斯坦边境的一条高速公路，以及哈萨克斯坦阿拉木图(Almaty，见上图)的一条环路。
 The AIIB was formally launched in January after attracting dozens of Asian and European member countries, many of them US allies that ignored Washington’s concerns about the emergence of a Chinese rival to the World Bank and Asian Development Bank.
 亚投行是在今年1月正式启动的，此前该行吸引了亚洲和欧洲的数十个成员国，其中许多国家是美国的盟国，它们没有理会华盛顿方面对于中国主导的机构叫板世界银行(World Bank)和亚洲开发银行(ADB)的顾虑。
 In an effort to counter the Obama administration’s initial criticism, the AIIB has said it will enforce governance standards on a par with those at the World Bank and ADB. Last week Jin Liqun, AIIB president, and his World Bank counterpart signed a framework agreement to work together on co-finance projects. The AIIB expects to approve about $1.2bn in financing this year, including about a dozen projects with the World Bank that have not yet been announced.
 为了回应奥巴马政府最初的批评，亚投行已表态称，它将执行与世行和亚开行同等水平的治理标准。上周，亚投行行长金立群和世行行长签署了一项框架协议，使两家机构能够开展合作，共同为项目融资。亚投行预计今年将批准约12亿美元融资，其中包括十几个与世行合作的尚未宣布的项目。
 The AIIB will also co-finance projects with the Washington and Tokyo-led ADB, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the UK Department for International Development. Japan was the only major US ally to refuse Beijing’s invitation to join the AIIB.
 亚投行还将同美国和日本主导的亚开行、欧洲复兴开发银行(EBRD)以及英国国际发展部(DFID)共同为项目融资。日本是美国主要盟友中唯一没有接受中方加入亚投行邀请的国家。
 In Pakistan, the AIIB will join the ADB and Department for International Development to fund a 64km stretch of road connecting Shorkot to Khanewal, according to a tender document.
 根据一份招标文件，亚投行将在巴基斯坦联手亚开行和英国国际发展部，为一条连接绍尔果德(Shorkot)和哈内瓦尔(Khanewal)的64公里长公路提供建设资金。
 The ADB-led project’s terms were recently revised to allow the AIIB to participate. Under its guidelines, the AIIB can only fund projects open to companies from all countries, while the ADB restricts participation to bidders from its member nations.
 由亚开行牵头的这个项目最近修订了条款，以便让亚投行参与。根据其指导原则，亚投行只能向对所有国家的企业都开放的项目提供资金，而亚开行规定只有其成员国的企业才能投标。
 But the ADB will not cede its lead role. “ADB is the lead financing partner for the project and administers it on behalf of the other co-financiers,” the tender document said. “Bidding shall be carried out in accordance with ADB’s procurement guidelines and procedures.”
 但是，亚开行不会让出其牵头角色。“亚开行是项目的牵头融资伙伴，并代表其他共同出资方管理项目，”招标文件称。“招标将按照亚开行的采购准则和程序进行。”
 In Tajikistan, the AIIB will join the ADB and EBRD to help fund a road between the country’s capital, Dushanbe, and Tursunzoda on the Uzbekistan border. The third transport link that the AIIB is expected to help fund is the Bakad Ring Road, a joint World Bank-EBRD project in Kazakhstan’s commercial capital, Almaty.
 在塔吉克斯坦，亚投行将联手亚开行和欧洲复兴开发银行，帮助为连接该国首都杜尚别(Dushanbe)至与乌兹别克斯坦接壤的图尔孙扎德(Tursunzoda)的一条公路提供建设资金。预计亚投行将会参与出资的第三个交通项目是Bakad环路，这是世行和欧洲复兴开发银行在哈萨克斯坦商业之都阿拉木图的一个联合项目。
 All three projects will receive preliminary approval from the AIIB’s investment committee before the end of this month, according to two people familiar with the process, followed by a formal go-ahead from the bank’s board in June. The AIIB declined to comment.
 据两名熟悉相关过程的人士称，这三个项目将在本月底之前获得亚投行投资委员会初步批准，随后在6月获得该行董事会的正式批准。亚投行拒绝置评。
