Danny Alexander has been confirmed as a senior executive at China’s new Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
中国新成立的亚洲基础设施投资银行（AIIB，简称：亚投行）已正式任命丹尼騠虎煓大爵士(Sir Danny Alexander)担任高管。
Sir Danny, a Liberal Democrat who served as chief secretary to the Treasury in the previous coalition government, is moving to Beijing to be a vice-president and executive management team member, and the bank’s corporate secretary.
丹尼爵士是自由民主党(Liberal Democrat)人，曾在英国前联合政府内任财政部首席秘书。他将前往北京担任亚投行副行长、执行管理团队成员以及该行的公司秘书(corporate secretary)。
Sir Danny’s appointment, first announced by the Treasury, was confirmed later on Friday by the AIIB, along with the appointments of four other vice presidents.
对丹尼爵士的任命最初是由英国财政部宣布的，随后在周五又得到了亚投行的证实。同样得到证实的，还有亚投行对另外四位副行长的任命。
Joachim von Amsberg, a German with 25 years experience at the World Bank, will be vice president for policy and strategy while Kyttack Hong, chairman and chief executive of Korea Development Bank, will hold the risk portfolio.
具有25年世界银行(World Bank)工作经验的德国人约阿希姆冯阿姆斯贝格(Joachim von Amsberg)将担任亚投行掌管政策和战略的副行长，韩国产业银行(Korea Development Bank)董事长兼首席执行官洪起泽(Kyttack Hong)将掌管亚投行的风险组合。
DJ Pandian of India and Indonesia’s Luky Edo Wuryanto were named, respectively, vice presidents for investment and administration. Both Mr Pandian and Mr Wuryanto are veteran civil servants with experience in a number of development areas.
印度人潘笛安(D. J. Pandian)和印尼人拉克齐(Luky Edo Wuryanto)分别被任命为掌管投资和行政的副行长。这两人都是资深公务员，具备多个开发领域的经验。
George Osborne, the chancellor, took a big political gamble by backing the AIIB project at an early stage. Britain was a founding member of the bank when it was set up last year, ahead of other European countries.
英国财政大臣乔治攠斯本(George Osborne)曾展开一场重大的政治押注，在亚投行项目处于早期阶段时就力挺该项目。亚投行去年成立时，英国是该行的创始成员国之一，加入的时间早于其他欧洲国家。
Britain will receive one of the 12 seats on the bank’s board of directors and will represent other European countries, including Poland, Switzerland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Iceland.
英国将在该行董事会的12个席位中拥有一席，并会代表包括波兰、瑞士、瑞典、丹麦、挪威和冰岛在内的其他欧洲国家的利益。
The bank will act as China’s equivalent of the Washington-based World Bank, financing infrastructure projects including transport, energy and telecommunications across Asia using a mix of loans, equity investments and guarantees.
亚投行将扮演中国版的世行（后者总部位于华盛顿），利用贷款、股权投资和担保等多种方式，为亚洲各地包括交通、能源和电信在内的基础设施项目提供资金。
Sir Danny, whose duties include communications, said he was “delighted” at his appointment and would “relish the challenge” of helping to get the organisation up and running.
丹尼爵士在亚投行的职责包括沟通。他表示，他“很高兴”得到这一任命，并会享受为该组织正常运行助一臂之力所带来的挑战。
