Iraqi forces appeared poised to regain control of the city of Ramadi on Monday in what would mark their most significant victory against Isis fighters to date, although analysts warned myriad difficulties still lay ahead.
伊拉克部队周一似乎有望夺回拉马迪(Ramadi)，这将标志着他们在打击“伊拉克和黎凡特伊斯兰国”(ISIS)作战人员的战斗中迄今取得的最重大胜利，尽管分析人士警告称，无数困难仍然摆在面前。
State television broadcast footage of government soldiers raising the Iraq flag over Ramadi’s main government complex while a Sunni politician said that Isis fighters were fleeing the city towards rural areas. But questions still remained over just how much of the city, which Iraqi forces were forced to abandon in May, was under government control and just what was left of the city for civilians to return to.
官方电视台播出了政府军官兵在拉马迪主要政府大楼升起伊拉克国旗的画面，同时一名逊尼派政界人士表示，ISIS作战人员正从该市逃往农村地区。但是，对于伊拉克部队在今年5月被迫放弃的这座城市有多大部分处于政府控制之下，对于该市还剩下些什么在等待平民重返家园，仍有很多问号。
“Militarily speaking, we can say that the city of Ramadi has fallen back into the hands of the Iraqi forces,” Sunni politician Jaber Jaberi told the Financial Times. “It is considered a fallen city because there is no resistance from Isis.”
“从军事上说，我们可以说，拉马迪市已经回到伊拉克部队手中，”逊尼派政界人士贾比尔贾比瑞(Jaber Jaberi)对英国《金融时报》表示，“它之所以被认为是一座已经攻陷的城市，是因为ISIS方面没有抵抗。”
Still, Iraqi forces had yet to enter some areas of Ramadi where Isis fighters had left explosives behind, Mr Jaberi cautioned and another Iraqi analyst, Hisham al-Hashimi, said only 14 of the 43 neighbourhoods in central Ramadi were under government control.
话虽如此，贾比瑞告诫称，伊拉克部队还没有进入ISIS作战人员留下炸药的拉马迪某些地区。伊拉克另一名分析人士希沙姆哈希米(Hisham al-Hashimi)表示，拉马迪中心城区的43个地段中，只有14个处在政府控制下。
Any victory could also be Pyrrhic with months of heavy bombing appearing to have left much of the city in ruins, other analysts cautioned.
其他分析师告诫称，任何胜利也可能是得不偿失的惨胜，因为连续几个月的猛烈轰炸使该市大片地区沦为废墟。
“Getting a town back that you should not have lost in the first place is not going to matter very much if it has been completely destroyed,” said Anthony Cordesmann, a military expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
“收复一个你本来就不应该失守的城市，而这座城市已被彻底摧毁，那没什么了不起，”华盛顿智库——战略与国际问题研究中心(CSIS)的军事专家安东尼科德斯曼(Anthony Cordesman)表示。
