A group of hard-line Iranian news media organizations says it has raised $600,000 to add to a bounty for the killing of the British novelist Salman Rushdie.
一群立场强硬的伊朗新闻媒体组织称，它们已经募集了60万美元，用于提高刺杀英国小说家萨尔曼·拉什迪(Salman Rushdie)的赏金。
Iran’s former supreme leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, issued a fatwa, or religious edict, in 1989 calling for Mr. Rushdie to be killed because of his book “The Satanic Verses,” which the ayatollah found to be blasphemous and insulting toward Muslims. Mr. Rushdie has since then been living largely out of sight and under the protection of bodyguards.
1989年，伊朗前最高精神领袖阿亚图拉·鲁霍拉·霍梅尼(Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini)发布“法特瓦”(fatwa)，既宗教指令，悬赏刺杀拉什迪，因为霍梅尼认为拉什迪的作品《撒旦诗篇》(The Satanic Verses)亵渎神圣，是对穆斯林的侮辱。从那以后。拉什迪大部分时间里一直在保镖的保护下隐居。
The semiofficial Fars news agency, one of the organizations involved, reported that the new reward money was gathered during a trade fair called the Islamic Republic’s Digital Media Exhibition. It quoted the secretary of the exhibition saying that the $600,000 had been announced last week to mark the anniversary of the 1989 fatwa.
这些团体中包括半官方性质的Fars新闻社，据它报道，这笔新赏金是在名为“伊斯兰共和国数字媒体展览”的交易会上募集的。它引用该展览秘书长的话，称这60万美元赏金是上周公布的，正赶上1989年法特瓦的周年纪念。
The Iranian government distanced itself from calls for Mr. Rushdie’s death under former President Mohammad Khatami, a reformist who declared in 1998 that the fatwa had ended. But the religious authorities said it could not be withdrawn by anyone other than Ayatollah Khomeini, who died four months after issuing it. His successor, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said in 2005 that the fatwa remained valid.
在前总统穆罕默德·卡塔米(Mohammad Khatami)领导下的伊朗政府与拉什迪的谋杀令脱离了关系，1998年，身为改革主义者的卡塔米宣布该法特瓦失效。但宗教权威人士称，只有阿亚图拉·霍梅尼本人才能终结这个命令，而谋杀令颁布四个月之后，他就去世了。他的继任者阿亚图拉 ·阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)于2005年宣布，这条法特瓦依然有效。
The decree had already put a considerable price on Mr. Rushdie’s head: A religious organization called the 15 Khordad Foundation initially offered a $2.7 million reward to anyone carrying out the fatwa, then increased it to $3.3 million in 2012. The new money, bringing the total bounty to nearly $4 million, came from 40 news outlets listed by Fars, which said that it had contributed $30,000.
早先的刺杀令已经为拉什迪的人头开出了相当高的价格。一个名叫“15 Khordad 基金会”的宗教组织出价270万美元，奖励执行这条法特瓦的人，2012年又把奖金提高到330万美元。如今这笔新的款项把赏金提高到将近400万美元，来自Fars新闻社列举的40家新闻媒体，该社也提供了3万美元。
Iranian hard-line organizations tend to make symbolic gestures involving the Rushdie fatwa every year around its anniversary, Feb. 14. Whether the bounty really would be paid is unclear. Many news organizations in Iran do not turn a profit, and some are subsidized by state organizations.
这些伊朗强硬组织每年2月14日都会就刺杀拉什迪的法特瓦做出象征性姿态。赏金是否会真正被支付，目前尚不明确。伊朗的很多新闻组织都不盈利，有些出版物是由国家机构补贴的。
The announcement highlights the continuing political infighting in Iran as elections approach for Parliament and the Assembly of Experts, a council that would choose the next supreme leader. The government of President Hassan Rouhani has promised to improve relations with the West, while his hard-line opponents have campaigned against any opening. Analysts said the hard-liners may have been seeking an electoral edge by raising the Rushdie matter now.
这项声明表明，随着议会及“专家会议”选举(Assembly of Experts)的临近，伊朗内部的政治斗争仍在继续——“专家会议”是负责挑选下任最高领导人的组织。哈桑·鲁哈尼( Hassan Rouhani)政府承诺改善与西方的关系，而他的强硬派反对者们则反对任何开放政策。分析师们称，通过提高拉什迪一事的悬赏金额，这些强硬分子可能是希望在选举中谋求好处。
“This is just to overshadow the elections, because the hard-liners and their media want to dissuade people from voting in large numbers,” said Mojgan Faraji, a reformist journalist. She said the hard-liners drag up issues from the past to confuse people and to “make other issues more important than voting.”
“这只是为了影响选举，因为强硬分子和他们掌握的媒体希望组织人们大规模投票，”改革派记者穆耶根·法拉吉(Mojgan Faraji)说。她说，强硬分子翻过去的老账，是为了让人们感到困惑，从而“让其他问题显得比选举更加重要”。
