Fighting flared across Iraq on Sunday as government and Kurdish forces stepped up efforts to dislodge Isis fighters from strongholds in Fallujah and around Mosul.
周日伊拉克战火又起，伊拉克政府军和库尔德武装加紧攻势，试图把“伊拉克与黎凡特伊斯兰国”(ISIS)武装驱离费卢杰和摩苏尔附近的据点。
The Iraqi army, backed by special forces, Shia militias and coalition air power, deployed around the northern, western and southern approaches to the Sunni city of Fallujah. The city was taken by Isis in January 2014, months before the militant group’s rapid assault across Iraq.
伊拉克陆军在特种部队、什叶派武装以及联军空军的支持下，部署在逊尼派城市费卢杰北部、西部和南部要道。该市是在2014年1月被ISIS占领的，数月后，ISIS在伊拉克各地发动快速进攻。
Isis forces responded to the assault on the outskirts of Fallujah with suicide bombs to the north and a counter-attack in the south of the city that was repelled by helicopter gunships. Isis is also trying to retake the town of Hit, further north-west in the province of al-Anbar, which it lost this year.
针对在费卢杰郊区面对的进攻，ISIS武装分子在该市北部实施自杀式炸弹攻击，并在该市南部发起反攻，但被武装直升机击退。ISIS还试图重新攻占西北方向更远处、它在今年早些时候失手的安巴尔省Hit镇。
In the campaign, launched a week ago, Iraqi forces have taken much of the territory encircling Fallujah, according to military officers cited by agencies.
各新闻通讯社援引军官的话称，在一周前发动的此次战役中，伊拉克部队已夺取费卢杰周边大片地区。
While Sunni tribesmen have joined the forces seeking to oust Isis, Iranian backing for the Shia government in Baghdad has sparked concerns among Iraqi Sunnis, who fear reprisals as Shia militias spearhead the central government’s military advance into Isis areas.
尽管逊尼派部落加入了驱逐ISIS的力量，但伊朗方面对伊拉克什叶派政府的支持引起伊拉克逊尼派的担忧。他们担心，随着什叶派武装在中央政府针对ISIS控制地区的军事打击中打头阵，自己会遭到报复。
Residents have already claimed that Shia militias torched farms and mosques after retaking the city of al-Karmah, close to Fallujah, over the weekend.
居民们已经声称，什叶派武装在周末夺回费卢杰附近的al-Karmah市之后，烧毁了那里的农场和清真寺。
On Saturday Sunni parliamentarians condemned a visit by Major General Qassem Soleimani, head of foreign military operations for Iran’s Revolutionary Guards, to paramilitary forces fighting alongside the Iraqi army near Fallujah. They said Mr Soleimani’s visit would stoke sectarian tensions, undermining claims that the drive against Isis was a national endeavour.
上周六，逊尼派议员谴责伊朗革命卫队境外军事行动负责人卡西姆•索莱马尼少将(Qassem Soleimani)视察正在费卢杰附近与伊拉克陆军一起作战的民兵武装。他们表示，索莱马尼的访问将加剧宗派紧张局势，削弱有关打击ISIS是全国努力的主张。
Iran has defended its intervention, saying Mr Soleimani is in Iraq at the request of the elected government to “fight terrorists”.
伊朗为其干预进行了辩解，称索莱马尼是应伊拉克民选政府的邀请才前往的，目的是“打击恐怖分子”。
The US-led coalition is also helping a Kurdish offensive against villages about 20km east of Isis’s Mosul stronghold in northwestern Iraq. The Kurdish Regional Security Council said about 5,500 Peshmerga troops took part in the dawn offensive around Khazir on Sunday.
以美国为首的联盟也在帮助库尔德武装进攻距摩苏尔以东大约20公里处的多个村庄——摩苏尔是ISIS的重镇，位于伊拉克西北部。库尔德地区安全委员会(Kurdish Regional Security Council)表示，大约5500名“自由斗士”(Peshmerga)武装人员参与了周日在哈济尔附近发起的黎明攻势。
