Uber has struck a deal with Alipay that will allow Chinese travellers to use the online payments platform to request and pay for rides overseas, as the US ride-hailing company seeks a fresh edge in the highly competitive Chinese market.
优步(Uber)与支付宝(Alipay)达成一项协议，允许中国游客在海外使用支付宝叫优步的车并付款。这家美国叫车服务公司试图在竞争激烈的中国市场建立一项新的优势。
The deal will allow Chinese users of Uber to pay in renminbi using Alipay, the online payment service run by Alibaba’s financial affiliate Ant Financial, across the 68 countries in which Uber operates.
根据该协议，在优步有业务的68个国家内，优步中国用户将可使用支付宝以人民币付款。支付宝是阿里巴巴(Alibaba)旗下金融公司蚂蚁金服(Ant Financial)运营的在线支付服务平台。
As Uber has expanded rapidly, processing payments in each new market has been a challenge. The San Francisco-based company has struck scores of payments deals around the world and introduced cash payments in several cities.
随着优步迅速扩张，在每个新市场处理支付已变成了一项挑战。这家总部位于旧金山的公司在全球各地达成了大量的支付协议，并在几座城市推出了现金支付。
Tuesday’s agreement is notable not only because of its scale — Alipay is China’s leading online and mobile payments service with 450m users — but also because Alibaba is an investor in Didi Kuaidi, Uber’s biggest competitor in China, as well as its US rival Lyft.
周二达成的这项协议之所以引人注目，原因不仅在于其规模——支付宝是中国头号在线与移动支付服务平台，用户数达4.5亿——还在于阿里巴巴是滴滴快的(DiDi Kuaidi)和Lyft的股东，而滴滴快的是优步在中国的最大竞争对手，Lyft则是优步在美国的竞争对手。
Under the payments agreement, Alipay will promote Uber in its app to Chinese users outside of the mainland, who will be able to call a car via the Alipay app. Alipay will take an undisclosed cut of the transaction, as it does with other businesses promoted within its app.
根据这项协议，支付宝将在其海外版应用内向用户推介优步，用户将能够通过支付宝应用叫优步的车。支付宝将从交易额中抽成（比例未公开），正如它对自己应用内推介的其他业务采取的做法一样。
In China, the Alipay app will continue directing users to Didi, as it currently does.
在中国，支付宝应用将像目前一样，继续把用户导引给滴滴。
The tie-up could strengthen Uber’s hand as it contends with the global anti-Uber alliance — comprising Didi, Lyft, GrabTaxi and India-based Ola — to win the business of Chinese travellers.
在优步与全球反优步联盟（由滴滴、Lyft、GrabTaxi和印度Ola组成）对抗之际，这次合作可加强优步的实力，以赢得中国游客的业务。
Uber already accept payments made via Alipay from passengers within China, under an agreement struck in 2014. Before Tuesday’s deal, Chinese passengers needed a foreign currency-denominated credit card in order to use Uber outside of China.
根据2014年达成的一项协议，优步已接受中国境内乘客通过支付宝支付叫车费用。周二的协议达成之前，中国乘客在境外需要外币信用卡才能使用优步的服务。
