Uber chief executive Travis Kalanick launched the latest salvo in his company’s battle with for supremacy in China yesterday, insisting that the ride-hailing company could outlast local rival Didi Kuaidi because of its huge balance sheets and more efficient spending practices.
优步(Uber)首席执行官特拉维斯愠灓尼克(Travis Kalanick)昨日为该公司在中国的霸主之争发起最新攻势，坚称优步可以比本土对手滴滴快的(Didi Kuaidi)坚持更久，因为优步拥有庞大的资产负债表，而且在支出上效率更高。
Mr Kalanick accused Didi of being overburdened with lossmaking subsidies to the tune of $70m-$80m per week, which would represent about $4bn over the course of a year. “It’s not how much you spend, it’s how efficiently you spend,” he said, arguing that Uber spent less on driver subsidies per ride than Didi because of a more efficient structure.
卡兰尼克声称滴滴亏损负担过重，每周需要补贴7000万至8000万美元，这样下去一年就是大约40亿美元。他说：“关键不在于你花了多少钱，而是你花钱的效率。”他表示优步在每一单上给司机的补贴少于滴滴，因为优步的结构效率更高。
Didi rejected Mr Kalanick’s figures, saying that Uber “is being wildly creative about our numbers”, insisting that it was more efficient than its US competitor because it had more riders and drivers.
滴滴否认了卡兰尼克提出的数据，表示优步“对我们的补贴数字拥有疯狂的创造力”，并坚称自己比美国对手更高效，因为滴滴拥有更多乘客和司机。
“Didi holds over 80 per cent of the market, which means our competitor has to bleed subsidies to make up for inadequate numbers of riders and drivers,” the Chinese group said.
Mr Kalanick’s broadside is the latest in a long-running feud between the two companies, which have been bitter competitors since Didi was created out of a merger of China’s two largest ride-hailing apps last February.
卡兰尼克此番猛烈抨击再一次显示了两家公司的长期争斗，自从去年2月中国两大打车应用合并成滴滴快的后，与优步的竞争变得更为激烈。
Investors continue to plough money into taxi-app companies. Uber China, which operates as a separate entity, was valued at $7bn last September before it raised a further $1.2bn.
投资者继续对打车应用公司投入资金。优步中国(Uber China)作为一个独立运营实体，去年9月估值达70亿美元，随后又融资12亿美元。
Didi said that it was worth more than $16bn after its most recent funding round.
滴滴表示最近一轮融资结束后，滴滴估值已超过160亿美元。
Neither Uber nor Didi disclosed how much they spent subsidising drivers and riders. But both companies have invested about $1bn in the past year in China, much of which has been for that purpose.
无论优步还是滴滴都没有透露它们对司机和乘客的具体补贴数字。但两家公司过去一年在中国投入了大约10亿美元，其中很大一部分作此用途。
Mr Kalanick, who was in Beijing to sign a partnership with travel and logistics provider HNA Group, which owns Hainan Airlines, said that Uber would invest more in China.
卡兰尼克昨日在北京与旅游和物流供应商海航集团(HNA Group)签订了合作协议，他表示优步将对中国加大投资。海航集团旗下拥有海南航空(Hainan Airlines)。
“We have lots of cities around the world that are profitable and look forward to investing those profits in China,” he said.
