Born August 29, 1958, Michael Jackson only lived to age 50, but he created an indelible mark upon civilization as one of the most well-known entertainers in modern history. He began his rise to the top at the tender age of five when he performed the song, "Climb Every Mountain" with his brothers as part of the iconic "Jackson Five." He'd go on to become one of the best-selling artists of all time with a mountain of awards and accolades.Flamboyant clothing and a tendency to wear a face mask in public turned him into a strange eccentric by the 1990s. Eventually, his star was tarnished by repeated accusations of child molestation and the devastating court trials that followed. He would spend years trying to rebuild his name and reputation as the greatest entertainer on the planet, but he would die from a drug overdose on June 25, 2009, just a few months before his 51st birthday.Here are some facts you might not know about the King of Pop.
Like his famous "Moonwalk," another one of Michael's famous on-stage moves was a seemingly gravity-defying lean forward where his feet remained planted flat on the ground. Normal people would fall over, but not Michael Jackson. On tour, he achieved this move with a pair of specially designed shoes that sported a cleft in the heel. On stage, Michael and his backup dancers could slide their shoes onto small pegs rising from the surface of the stage. With their shoes secured to the stage, The performers could lean forward without tipping over, thereby creating the illusion the rules of gravity just didn't apply on Michael's stage.
Michael Jackson's popularity ebbed and flowed over the decades, but one of the reasons he had so much money was his ownership of the copyrights to several Beatles songs like "Come Together" and "Hey Jude." In the mid-1980s, Jackson was part of a famous investment group that included participants like entertainment mogul David Geffen. When the songs came up for sale, Michael was desperate to secure the rights to the catalogue and eventually paid an astonishing $47.5 million for the rights to many of the Beatles' most famous hits.
Just about every month a new entertainer has his or her name enshrined on the famous Hollywood Walk of Fame, but Michael actually has two stars, which puts him in league with just a handful of other performers. Over the years, the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce has created five categories including movies, television, music, radio, and theater. So far, classic star Gene Autry is the only performer with a star in every category, and stars like Tony Martin, Roy Rogers, and Bob Hope each garnered four stars each.
For many years, Michael Jackson lived on an expansive property known as Neverland Ranch in Santa Barbara County. He named the property after the famous story of Peter Pan, which is how many people saw the entertainer. He was a kid at heart who never really grew up. One of the most amazing features of the ranch was the veritable zoo of exotic animals including a boa constrictor named Muscles and famous chimpanzee named Bubbles. The animals Michael housed on his property ranged from zebras to big cats to alligators.
One of the activities that got Michael the nickname of "Whacko Jacko" was his purchase of an oxygen chamber. He once claimed that sleeping in the chamber could help him live to 150 years old, which is only a century short of the pop icon's death at age 50. While filming an advertisement for Pepsi, Michael was burned and used a chamber to recover from the accident. An oxygen chamber is designed to allow someone to breathe in 100% oxygen instead of the low concentration humans breathe in regular atmospheric conditions.
编辑：烟囱 来源：前十网
