Although it depends on the source, most estimates suggest that around a billion people around the worldwatched Michael Jackson's memorial when it aired in 2009. Most of the time, sports broadcasts reign supreme as far as most-watched television programs are concerned. For example, the Super Bowl has the most records for total viewers in the United States while Germany's biggest audiences watch FIFA World Cup games. A total of 19 networks around the United States aired the memorial, and official ratings company Nielsen reported that over 31 million people tuned in to watch. In addition, the memorial scored large audiences in Europe where it was broadcast during the prime time hours. Over seven million people watched the broadcast on various BBC networks in the UK, and a variety of other countries like Germany, Australia, and France also aired the memorial. Many more millions of people reportedly chose to stream the memorial through the internet, and major websites reported huge spikes in traffic after the memorial was streamed online. For example, CNN said its memorial stream got over 80 million page views and a whopping 9.7 million streams. Other big internet news names like MSNBC, Fox News, and Yahoo News all also reported millions of live video streams.
In a sign that his fans weren't yet ready to give him up, Michael Jackson's Facebook page became the most liked page on the social media website shortly after his death. Before Michael's page took the number one spot, the only page with more "likes" was the page of President Barack Obama. Just after his death, two of Michael's albums rose to the top of the sales charts, and the top 10 songs on iTunes included four Michael Jackson songs.
When Michael started his career as a child with his brothers as the Jackson Five, the clan's father was willing to have them perform almost anywhere to get them exposure with new audiences. Oddly, some of the first stages on which Michael sang were in strip clubs. The Jackson Five's first promoted song was called "Big Boy," which was released in 1968. Many of the performances of this early hit took place in strip clubs at night after the boys had already had a full day of school. Michael was just five or six years old at the time of these performances.
One of the most devastating parts of Michael Jackson's early passing is the enthusiasm and ideas he had for his comeback tour and how none of those plans ever made it to fruition. Known for his crazy stunts and spending habits, one of the strangest ideas to come out before his death was a giant 50-foot robot that would walk around Las Vegas to advertise a Las Vegas show to people landing at the local airport. Before settling on his "This is It" tour, Michael had been planning a show in Las Vegas, and the robot would welcome people to town as they arrived by airplane. The initial plans for a giant robot were drawn up in 2007, but the Las Vegas show never came to fruition for a variety of reasons. Michael had just come out of his third trial for child molestation, and while he was acquitted, he had problems securing funding for a new show in Las Vegas. Investors were nervous about partnering with Michael because of his legal troubles. At the time, Michael's money problems also extended to his Neverland Ranch, which was eventually sold off as debt to a financier.
Some of Michael Jackson's dance moves were as famous as his songs, and the moonwalk was definitely one of his most famous creations. However, Michael Jackson didn't invent the moonwalk. The artist first unveiled what would become one of his signature dance moves in 1983 during a taping for a television show. Given Michael's incredible stage presence and performances, it's not hard to assume Michael created the move in the early 1980s. However, in the decades since he made it famous, a variety of performers have revealed that they, too, used the move decades before Michael ever used it on stage. Over the years, different stories have been told to describe how Michael came to use the move in his show. Michael's brother, Jermaine, once said that Michael made his dance moves up on the spot and that they weren't usually rehearsed before they were performed. On the other hand, his sister, LaToya, said that the move came from a dance that kids were performing for fun in the streets at the time and that Michael actually got lessons from a backup dancer named Jeffrey Daniel, who already knew how to do the moonwalk. Before Michael started doing the moonwalk on stage, it was called "the backslide."
Michael's dramatic changes in appearance over the years were reportedly due to frequent visits to the plastic surgeon, but he only ever admitted to having two surgeries. Depending on the source, some say Michael had somewhere around a dozen procedures while other sources actually claim he had over 100 operations. While alive, Michael only admitted to having a nose job and work on his chin, and he blamed his strangely white skin on a condition called vitiligo. Although gossip surrounding his skin color was common during his lifetime, an autopsy revealed the singer did indeed suffer from the skin pigmentation ailment. An interview in "People" magazine with a Los Angeles plastic surgeon named Dr. Wallace Goodstein said the King of Pop came into the office frequently for procedures. Goodstein only worked for about two years at the office where Michael's doctor practiced, but he said Michael came in for around a dozen procedures in that short time. Procedures Michael allegedly had included many nose jobs, the insertion of a cleft into his chin, and implants in his cheeks. Jackson would never arrive for his surgeries during the day and had his doctor do the procedures in the evenings when no one was likely to see the pop star at the office. J. Randy Taraborrelli, who wrote Michael's biography, said Michael had his first rhinoplasty in 1979 after an accident during a dance routine. Apparently, the procedure made it difficult for Michael to breathe, so he had another rhinoplasty in 1981. However, conflicting reports from Michael's family members, his alleged doctors, and his own autobiography have made it impossible to confirm what procedures Michael had and how many nose jobs he underwent. Besides his nose job, the only other surgery Michael admitted to was getting the chin cleft.
编辑：烟囱 来源：前十网
