Russia is deliberately attacking civilians in northern Syria in an attempt to intensify the refugee crisis, western diplomats and politicians have warned, in a sign that a fragile ceasefire agreement for the war-ravaged country is crumbling before it begins.
西方外交官和政治人士警告称，俄罗斯正故意袭击叙利亚北部的平民，目的是加剧难民危机，这一迹象表明，对于这个战乱国家而言，脆弱的停火协议还未开始执行就在瓦解了。
A pivotal part of Russia’s strategy was “to exacerbate the refugee crisis and use it as a weapon to divide the transatlantic alliance and undermine the European project”, US Senator John McCain said in a speech at an annual security conference in Munich on Sunday.
美国参议员约翰麦凯恩(John McCain)周日在慕尼黑的一个年度安全会议上发表演讲时表示，俄罗斯战略的一个关键部分是“加剧难民危机，将其用作分裂欧美同盟和破坏欧洲一体化的武器”。
Two senior politicians from close US allies and a senior European intelligence official echoed Mr McCain’s remarks, reflecting the bleak mood among western defence chiefs, diplomats and political leaders gathered for the conference.
来自美国亲密盟国的两名高官以及欧洲一名高级情报官员呼应了麦凯恩的言论，这反映出参加此次会议的西方国防部长、外交官以及政治领导人的悲观情绪。
Moscow was “weaponising” the refugee crisis for leverage, one of the politicians warned. According to a European official, facilities such as bakeries and hospitals were being hit in an attempt to force the local population into capitulation and increase the flow of refugees towards Turkey and Europe.
其中一位政治人士警告称，俄罗斯正把难民危机“用作武器”以求讨价还价。一位欧洲官员称，为了迫使当地居民放弃一切，并增加逃往土耳其和欧洲的难民数量，面包房和医院等场所正遭到袭击。
The Syrian ceasefire deal, which is set to begin on Friday, was agreed by the International Syria Support Group — the collection of regional and world powers whose influence is critical in determining the outcome of the Syrian conflict — at the conference last Friday.
周五即将启动的叙利亚停火协议由国际叙利亚支持小组（International Syria Support Group，由地区和全球大国组成，它们的影响力在决定叙利亚冲突的结果方面至关重要）在上周五的会议上达成。
Moscow’s air operations have shifted the balance of power in favour of the regime of Bashar al-Assad, leaving many Washington-backed moderate opposition groups in northern Syria close to surrendering.
俄罗斯的空中作战行动使得战场形势向着有利于巴沙尔阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)政权的方向发展，导致叙利亚北部很多得到美国支持的温和反对派组织接近投降。
