Whether it's by plane, train or automobile travelling usually makes us sleepy, but using an extra shirt or bag as a pillow aren't the best options for comfort.
乘坐飞机、火车或汽车的时候人总是感觉昏昏欲睡，但用衣服或书包充当枕头又不够舒服。
A company has developed a hoodie that helps you get a few minutes of shut eye, no matter where you are.
现在一家公司设计出了可供随时随地打瞌睡的连帽衫。
Hypnos Sleep Hoodie is an inflatable hoodie, with a hood that transforms into a pillow.
这款“睡神”牌连帽衫具有充气功能，可以把风帽当枕头使用。
The tricked out sweatshirt is currently listed on Kickstarter, where they company has set a goal of $30,000 by January 11th.
这款别具特色的运动衫现正在众筹平台Kickstarter上面对公众募集资金。该公司的目标是在1月11日前募得3万美元。
A total of $56,708 has already been raised.
而现在他们已经总共募得56708美元。
Co-founder, Josh Woodle, had the idea while on the way to the airport, whose main job is in film production.
乔希伍德尔是该公司创始人之一，主要从事电影制作工作。这款连帽衫的创意源于他在一次去机场路上的突发奇想。
Him and his brother grew up in Chicago and were constantly wearing hoodies, Woodle recalls, and he wanted to find a way to combine the comfy layering staple with the ubiquitous 'neck pillow as travel accessory,' he said in an interview with Refinery29.com.
他和兄弟在芝加哥长大，两人都经常穿连帽衫。他在时尚网站Refinery29的采访中回忆道，当时他想寻找一种法子，使衣服既穿着舒服，又有人们旅行常带的颈枕功能。
From the outside, it looks like regular comfy hoodie, but on the inside there is a hidden inflatable, ergonomic neck pillow that can be blown up through a nozzle on the inside of the hood.
这件衣服从外观上看就是件普通又舒适的连帽衫。但衣服的风帽里藏有一个可充气的人体工学颈枕，只要对着吹气口吹吹气就能马上撑起来。
'The pillow had to be perfect; it had to feature a new shape that was comfortable, versatile, and inconspicuous to the outside world,' said Woodle.
'Our next focus was to offer a beautiful hoodie that could transition from a day on the plane straight to the bar at night.'
“我们的下一个目标是使连帽衫更加美观，既可以白天在飞机上穿，也可以晚上去酒吧时穿。”
The team has spent a few months working on the fabric, design and functionality of the garment.
这家公司已经投入了数月时间对衣服的面料、外观设计和功能进行改进。
With the help of industrial designers with over 20 years in the inflatable industry they have created something that quickly inflates and easily deflates.
他们请来了在充气品领域具有超过20年工作经验的工业设计师，在他们的协助下设计出了可以迅速充气又易于放气的枕头。
According to the Kickstarter campaign, 'it's just three seconds to sleep'.
根据Kickstarter的宣传，有了这种连帽衫，“只要操作三秒就能睡上一觉”。
The hood also has enough space so when the pillow deflates you aren't bothered by it and it's not noticeable to anyone else around you.
风帽里有足够的空间，所以在放气时周围的人也不会察觉，穿着者也大可不必烦恼。
Wearers also have the ability to remove the pillow and reinsert it at a later time.
在放气之后，枕头也可以随意拆卸和装回。
'Our patent pending system has a tailored fit pocket that fits the inflatable tightly inside the hood with a seal tight opening for the valve', says the company.
There are four different types of hoodies and a woven jacket that has the same inflatable hood.
这种连帽衫共有四种不同款式。此外该公司还设计了一种针织外套，也配有同样的充气枕头。
Hypnos has stated it only uses locally sourced goods and labor, which they will not compromise on.
睡神公司（Hypnos）表示，该连帽衫生产中所使用的人力物力均来自本地，他们也并不打算改变这一点。
They also refuse to outsource and are 'committed to valuing the artists and craftsman who contribute to the quality of the product'.
该公司也拒绝将产品外包，而是完全托付给参与产品改进的设计师和工匠。
For pledging $49, backers will receive a hoodie for their support, which is $10 less than the retail price.
在Kickstarter上只要捐49美元就能收到这款连帽衫，比零售价还便宜10美元。
