One of the world's most remote inhabited islands is on the lookout for a new farmer, but with just one village and a population of only 265 people moving there may not be everyone's cup of tea.
最近，世界上最偏僻的小岛之一正忙着招一位农夫；不过，鉴于那地方只有一个村子和区区265的人口，大多数人应该都不乐意搬到那边去。
Tristan da Cunha, which is located in the South Atlantic Ocean between Brazil and South Africa, posted an advert for the role of 'agricultural adviser' on the National Farmers' Union website with the hopes of attracting a candidate who can help advise on development of livestock and agriculture.
小岛名叫特里斯坦-达库尼亚，位于巴西和南非之间的南大西洋海域。最近当地人在他们的全国农民联合会网站上发布了一则招聘广告，希望招一名“农业顾问”，以指导当地人发展养殖业和农业。
According to the posting " the island would benefit from reducing its reliance on imported foodstuffs to become more self sufficient" and needs someone with "knowledge and expertise to assist in increasing the production of fruit and vegetables and the development of livestock".
招聘广告是这么说的：“本岛将减少对进口食品的依赖，提高自给自足水平以惠及民生。目前急需有技术、有能力者积极加入，帮助岛民提高蔬果产量，发展牲畜养殖。”
Unique as the role may sound though it is not the first time an unusual job has come up for grabs, in the past there have been adverts for everything from a chocolate taster to a paintball tester.
虽然听起来新鲜，但这样非同寻常的工作岗位已经不是第一次出现了。要知道，过去也出现过各种各样的招聘广告，包括巧克力品尝员、彩色弹珠测试员等等。
Here we take a look at some of the more weird and wonderful jobs out there for adventurous candidates:
下面我们就到全球去看看那些怪诞又新奇的工作吧——特别适合冒险爱好者哦：
Scottish firm Mackie's advertised for a chief taster in November with the promise of monthly supplies of chocolate for the successful candidate to "taste, test, lick and sook on the couch at home".
苏格兰麦凯公司11月份曾经登广告，招聘一位首席品尝员。应聘成功者每月都会收到巧克力——他的工作就是“靠在家里的沙发上仔仔细细地品尝这些巧克力”。
A rather unusual job advert for a paintball tester received more than 10,000 applicants in January 2015 with people from all across the globe wanting to try their hand at the job.
2015年1月，一则非同寻常的招聘广告吸引了一万多名来自世界各地的求职者；而岗位居然是彩色弹珠测试员！大家都跃跃欲试。
Touted as the "best job in the world" a six-month job opportunity came up on Queensland's Hamilton Island offered a live-in position which involved exploring the area and reporting back on what it had to offer.
招聘者自诩这是“世界上最吃香的工作”：澳大利亚昆士兰州的汉密尔顿岛提供一个包住宿、为期六个月的岗位。职责是对岛屿进行巡查并汇报相关情况。
Supermarket chain Tesco found themselves in need of a Christmas tree light untangler this festive season and promptly advertised for someone with "a friendly helpful demeanour, oodles of patience and of course, the innate knack to be able to untangle even the most scrambled of wires".
某个圣诞假日，乐购连锁超市急需圣诞树灯饰清理员，于是马上发出了招聘广告。对求职者的要求是：举止亲和、乐于助人、有耐心，当然，最重要的是要能得心应手地清理各种杂乱的电灯线。
The owners of Wookey Hole caves in Somerset were so keen to get a perfect replacement for their resident witch they even advertised the job in Eastern Europe.
英国萨默基特郡伍基洞穴急求一位常驻魔法师。他们甚至把招聘范围扩大到了东欧地区。
Ever fancied going into space but not sure how to get there, well turns out thousands of others feel the same as over 10,000 applied for a one way mission to Mars that was advertised by NASA.
幻想着能进入太空，却不知道怎么去？你不是一个人。美国航天局（NASA）发布了一则广告，招聘一位能执行火星任务的单程航天员。这个岗位吸引了一万多人前来应聘。
Those with a love of water were encouraged to apply for the role of water slide tester back in 2013 as travel company First Choice looks for an employee who would be happy to accept a post "where 'going to work' means donning your swimming gear and hurtling down waterslides".
那些喜欢水的人应该会对水上滑梯测试员的岗位跃跃欲试。这份工作的内容就是套上游泳装备，然后冲下水滑梯。该职位由“第一选择”旅游公司于2013年发布。
Wannabe adventurers, rangers and photographers were advertised for as part of a promotion by Tourism Australia to get people into the so-called best jobs in the world. The key draw was the 'chief funster' position which involved being a "professional party-goer and VIP: planning and attending concerts and parties".
澳大利亚旅游局曾经发布过所谓的 “世界上最佳职位”，包括探险家、护林员、摄影师等。而其中最吸引人眼球的岗位莫过于首席娱乐策划，工作内容涉及策划和参加音乐会、聚会等，可谓专业的派对狂人、派对贵宾。
The owners of the iconic signs at Land's End and John O'Groats launched a frantic search for an official photographer to take pictures of tourists with the famous signposts last year after their snapper of 16 years retired.
由于之前工作了16年的摄影师退休了，英国兰兹角和约翰奥格罗茨景点，去年曾发起一场疯狂的官方摄影师招聘活动，工作内容就是为游客和当地有名的“天涯海角”指示牌拍摄合照。
An advert for a job on the very quiet Scilly Isles peaked the interest of many a bobby after the previous holder of the post boasted it was "one of the most enviable policing post in the UK or even the world".
曾在无人问津的锡利群岛上工作过的前“岛警”夸耀说， 这是“全英国、甚至全世界最让人羡慕的警察工作”，导致前来应聘这一职位的求职者爆满。
