Universities in the UK are leading the way in maths, English, history and art, according to annual rankings.
根据年度排名，英国各大学在数学、英语、历史和艺术学科处于领先位置。
Following analysis of subject strength at world institutions, major global league tables have revealed that UK universities provide the best courses in eight of the 42 subjects analysed.
在对各大学府的学科实力进行评析后，全球大学的排行榜出炉。从中我们可以得知：在参与评析的42个学科中，英国各大学有8个学科被评为全球最佳课程。
Four universities feature in the top placed rankings, including the University of Oxford, which leads in four subjects, and the University of Cambridge, which leads three.
英国有四所大学名列前茅，包括分别领跑四个学科和三个学科的牛津大学和剑桥大学。
The Royal College of Art, which was given a major boost last week by George Osborne, the Chancellor, with ￡54 million in funding for its new campus in Battersea, is ranked as the world's best university for art and design, while the Institute of Education University College London retains its status as world-leading for education.
英国皇家艺术学院则被评为全球最佳艺术设计类大学。该校因上周收到财政大臣乔治·奥斯本一笔5400万英镑的拨款而备受关注，这笔资金将用于建设巴特西新校区。伦敦大学教育学院仍然在教育学科引领世界。
However, the rankings were dominated by US universities, with Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) topping the tables in 24 subjects between them.
不过，该排行榜其实是美国大学的天下：哈佛大学和麻省理工学院共有24个学科位居榜首。
Published by Quacquarelli Symonds (QS), researchers garnered the opinions of 76,798 academics and 44,426 employers to inform the results, alongside the analysis of 28.5 million research papers.
这份榜单由英国QS全球教育集团发布。研究人员征集了76798位学者和44426位雇主的意见，分析报告多达2850万份，最后得出了这份结果。
Results of the research saw UK universities secure eight first place rankings, 16 second-place rankings and 21 third-place rankings, with increases in both academic and employer reputation.
结果表明，英国大学摘下8顶桂冠，拿下16个第二名，还有21个学科位居第三，在学者和雇主中的口碑均有所提升。
Commenting on the rankings, Ben Sowter, head of the QS Intelligence Unit, said: "Though the US and UK remain dominant, our most inclusive rankings ever show that excellence can be found in an ever-increasing number of places.
QS信息部负责人本·梭特在评价这份榜单时说道：“虽然美国大学和英国大学仍然占主导地位，不过这份覆盖范围最广的排名同时也显示出，越来越多的地区正在涌现出优秀学科。”
"Nations like Austria, South Africa, Finland, Brazil, China, and Sweden can be found in the top ten of our tables. Our new top 100 for performing arts acknowledges academic excellence in 27 different countries and regions, while our top 100 for mineral engineering recognises 26 countries and regions.”
“奥地利、南非、芬兰、巴西、中国和瑞典等地的部分学科跻身榜单前十。表演艺术学科的百强学府来自27个不同国家和地区，而矿业工程的百强学府来自26个不同国家和地区。”
Top world universities by subject
按学科排名的世界顶尖大学
1. Accounting and Finance: Harvard, US
会计和金融：哈佛大学，美国
2. Agriculture and Forestry: Wageningen University, Netherlands
农林学：瓦格宁根大学，荷兰
3. Anthropology: Harvard, US
人类学：哈佛大学，美国
4. Archaeology: University of Cambridge, UK
考古学：剑桥大学，英国
5. Architecture/Built Environment: Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), US
建筑学/建筑环境学：麻省理工学院，美国
6. Art and Design: Royal College of Art, UK
艺术设计：皇家艺术学院，英国
7. Biological Sciences: Harvard, US
生物科学：哈佛大学，美国
8. Business and Management: Harvard, US
商务管理：哈佛大学，美国
9. Chemistry: MIT, US
化学：麻省理工学院，美国
10. Communication and Media Studies: University of Southern California, US
通信与传媒：南加州大学，美国
11. Computer Science: MIT, US
计算机科学：麻省理工学院，美国
12. Dentistry: University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
牙科：香港大学，中国香港
13. Development Studies: Harvard, US
发展学：哈佛大学，美国
14. Earth and Marine Sciences: ETH Zurich, Switzerland
地球与海洋科学：苏黎世联邦理工大学，瑞士
15. Economics and Econometrics: MIT, US
经济与经济计量学：麻省理工学院，美国
16. Education: UCL Institute of Education, UK
教育学：伦敦大学教育学院，英国
17. Engineering—Chemical: MIT, US
工程学——化学：麻省理工学院，美国
18. Engineering—Civil and Structural: MIT, US
工程学——土木及结构工程学：麻省理工学院，美国
19. Engineering—Electrical & Electronic: MIT, US
工程学——电气电子工程：麻省理工学院，美国
20. Engineering—Mechanical: MIT, US
工程学——机械：麻省理工学院，美国
21. Engineering—Mining and Mineral: Colorado School of Mines, US
工程学——矿业和采矿工程：科罗拉多矿业大学，美国
22. English Language and Literature: University of Oxford, UK
英语语言文学：牛津大学，英国
23. Environmental Sciences: University of California, Berkeley, US
环境科学：加州大学伯克利分校，美国
24. Geography: University of Oxford, UK
地理学：牛津大学，英国
25. History: Universities of Oxford & Cambridge, UK
历史：牛津大学和剑桥大学，英国
26. Law: Harvard, US
法学：哈佛大学，美国
27. Linguistics: MIT, US
语言学：麻省理工学院，美国
28. Materials Science: MIT, US
材料科学：麻省理工学院，美国
29. Mathematics: University of Cambridge, UK
数学：剑桥大学，英国
30. Medicine: Harvard, US
医学：哈佛大学，美国
31. Modern Languages: University of Oxford, UK
现代语言：牛津大学，英国
32. Nursing: University of Pennsylvania, US
护理学：宾夕法尼亚大学，美国
33. Performing Arts: Juilliard, US
表演艺术：茱莉亚音乐学院，美国
34. Pharmacy and Pharmacology: Harvard, US
药学与药理学：哈佛大学，美国
35. Philosophy: University of Pittsburgh, US
哲学：匹兹堡大学，美国
36. Physics and Astronomy: MIT, US
物理学和天文学：麻省理工学院，美国
37. Politics and International Studies: Harvard, US
政治与国际研究：哈佛大学，美国
38. Psychology: Harvard, US
心理学：哈佛大学，美国
39. Social Policy and Administration: Harvard, US
社会政策及行政管理：哈佛大学，美国
40. Sociology: Harvard, US
社会学：哈佛大学，美国
41. Statistics and Operational Research: MIT, US
统计和运筹学：麻省理工学院，美国
42. Veterinary Science: University of California, Davis, US
兽医学：加州大学戴维斯分校，美国
