You've researched the company, updated your CV and even stalked the CEO on Facebook - and now you just have to make it through the interview.
你已经对某个公司做了调查，更新了简历，甚至在Facebook上悄悄关注了这个公司的CEO——现在你万事俱备，只欠面试了。
Increasingly, in order to scout out the top talent, businesses are now throwing curveball questions during the interview process. Asking about seemingly unrelated topics can help give a company a wider snapshot into the person and their life.
为了物色杰出人才，现在越来越多的公司开始在面试环节设置一些出人意料的问题，这些看似不相关的问题实则可以快速捕捉应聘者及其生活的大致情况。
But whilst you may know what animal you'd be and how to sell a fridge to an eskimo, it's actually the more straightforward questions that can catch an applicant out - and they're the most vital.
但是，尽管你知道你想成为什么动物，以及怎样把冰箱卖给爱斯基摩人，那些令应聘者猝不及防的实际上是更加直白的问题——而这些问题才是最关键的。
FEMAIL called on business brains, recruiters and top career experts to reveal the interview questions every candidate should know the answer to by heart - and how to handle them if one is thrown your way.
《每日邮报》女性专栏邀请了企业高管、招聘人员和顶级职业专家来揭示这些每个应聘者都应当了然于心的面试问题，以及当你遇到这样的问题时要如何应对。
What are you proud to have accomplished at your last job?
在上一份工作中，什么使你最有成就感？
This question gives the interviewer the opportunity to learn your strengths. Simply saying: 'I increased social media engagement' isn't going to give your interviewer a sense of what you accomplished. Instead, tell them how you increased social media engagement for the company and why your help was valuable.
面试官可以通过这个问题了解你的长处。仅仅说“我提高了社交媒体参与度”并不会让面试官了解到你做成了什么事。而是要告诉他们你是如何为公司提高社交媒体参与度的，为什么你的帮助是有价值的。
It's important to master the art of the humble brag to make a good impression. Feeling proud of your accomplishments is fine. Endlessly discussing your value to the last company you worked for gives the impression you are arrogant.
谦虚地自夸非常重要，掌握这门艺术可以给人留下良好的印象。你可以对自己的成就感到骄傲，但喋喋不休自己对前雇主的价值只会给人留下自大的印象。
How would your previous manager describe you?
你上一任经理会怎样评价你呢？
Why are you being asked? An interviewer will use this question to gauge how you see yourself in manager's eyes, and to determine how well you get along with management.
为什么会问你这样的问题？通过这个问题，面试官可以推测你觉得你在经理眼中是什么样子的，进而断定你与管理层的关系相处得如何。
Remember, if you've given (or plan to give) your previous manager as a reference, the interviewer can confirm your answer to this question, so it's best to be as honest as possible. Talk about your attitude toward work, ability to work in a group and the positive aspects of your working relationship with your old manager. If you don't get along with your old manager, try not to let this influence your response, and instead talk about your role within your previous team.
请记住，如果被问及（或你自己准备提及）你的前任经理，面试官是可以去证实你的回答的，因此最好尽可能地诚实。谈谈你对工作的态度、团队合作的能力，和与前任经理工作关系中的积极一面。如果你与前任经理关系不好，不要为此影响你的回答，可以转而谈谈你在前工作团队中扮演的角色。
Why are you looking to leave your current job?
为什么要放弃现在的工作？
The interviewer wants to know that you have clearly thought through your decision to leave your current job, and that you know what you want out of your next role.
面试官想通过这个问题知道你是否已经深思熟虑，明确决定放弃现在的工作，并且知道你想在下个工作中得到什么。
Never use this question as an excuse to complain about your current or previous employer, as it will make you sound unprofessional! Instead, take the opportunity to explain areas in which you'd like to be more challenged, projects you haven't had the opportunity to work on, or simply elaborate on why this move is right for you at this time. Focus on the positive aspects of what else you have to offer professionally and how it fits within the role you're applying for.
永远不要以这个问题为理由来抱怨现任或前任雇主，因为这会使你听起来很不专业。相反，你要借此机会谈谈你感兴趣的更富挑战性的领域、以前没有机会做的项目，或者只是阐述为什么这次跳槽此刻对你来说是正确的选择。要集中讲述你还能在专业上有什么贡献，你申请的这一职位为什么适合你。
Tell me about a time when you messed up at work. How did you fix your mistake? 
你有把工作搞砸的经历吗？你是怎么弥补错误的？
Everyone makes mistakes, but not everyone has the ability to quickly solve them on their own.
人人都会犯错，但并不是每个人都有能力快速独自解决问题。
This question is not a trap. It's the employer's way of learning if you are able to fix your mistakes. Honestly talk about a mistake you made, but focus mainly on how you solved the problem.
这个问题不是陷阱，而是雇主考察你是否有能力修正错误的方式。坦诚地讲下你曾经犯过的错误，但要主要集中于你是如何解决问题的。
Begin by saying: 'A time I messed up at work was when I gave a customer a quote that was considerably lower than it should have been. I realised my mistake and immediately told my boss about the situation. I knew the business was going to take a hit financially, so I offered to work longer hours until I had worked off the debt from my mistake.'
你可以这样说：“有一次我把工作搞砸了，我给顾客的报价远远低于正常价格。我意识到了错误并迅速告知老板这一情况。我知道公司会因此蒙受经济损失，因此我主动提出加班，直到我的工作可以抵消我失误造成的损失。”
This answers the interviewer's question but focuses more on the positive parts of the mistake.
这就回答了面试官的问题，也把问题更多地集中在错误的积极一面。
What is your five-year plan?
你的五年计划是什么？
When interviewers ask this question, they want to know if you will last at the company.
如果面试官问这个问题，他们是想知道你是否会长久留在公司。
Picture where your career is going. Maybe the job you're applying for is only a stepping stone to a bigger and better career. Letting your potential employer know their business is nothing more than a pit stop on your career road trip could cost you the job.
展望一下你职业生涯的走向。也许你申请的这个工作只是通向更远大的职业生涯的一个跳板。让潜在的雇主知道他们公司只是你职业旅途中的一个加油站，你可能就得不到这份工作了。
Instead of letting an employer know you don't plan to stay with the company long-term, think about what you hope to get out of the position. Talk generally about how you hope the position will prepare you for your next career move. Mention your desire for career growth within the company.
与其让雇主知道你不打算长期留在公司，还不如想想你希望从这份工作中得到什么。你可以大致说说你希望这份工作对你职业生涯的下一步有何帮助，提一下你希望在公司里有长久的职业发展。
Only apply for jobs if you honestly see yourself working there for the foreseeable future. Otherwise, it's not fair to you, the company, or the person who would actually be the best fit for the position.
只申请你真诚希望在可预见的将来可以一直做的工作。否则，对你，对公司，对实际上最适合此职位的人都不公平。
What is one of your flaws?
说说你的一个缺点吧
This question is very often treated as a joke or a way to turn a negative into a positive (I'm too perfect. I'm an overachiever. I never give up), said Annie Griffin, Chief Happiness Officer at Manifest London. Manifest London
首席幸福官安妮•格里芬说，这个问题经常被当作一个笑话，或变负面为正面的方式，比如回答我太完美了、我是个高成就者、我从不半途而废。
'I'll tell you what I like, I like to hire human beings not machines. I like to hire someone who is upfront, honest and comfortable in their own skin. Everyone has flaws, I wasn't born yesterday.
“告诉你我喜欢什么，我喜欢聘用人类而不是机器。我喜欢聘用直率、诚实、喜欢以本来面目示人的人。每个人都有缺点，我又不是三岁小孩，骗不了我的。”
'Show me that you are a person who has awareness and honesty. Maybe you hate getting out of bed. Maybe you speak too quietly. You let papers pile up on the printer.
“要向我展示你是一个能意识到自己缺点的诚实的人。也许你讨厌起床，也许你说话声音太轻，也许你任由打印机上的纸堆成堆。”
'When people recognise a flaw it shows a hunger for improvement and that is always desirable.'
“如果一个人能意识到自己的缺点，说明他渴望改进，这才是我们想要的。”
Describe how an apple tastes to someone who can't taste.
怎么向没有味觉的人描述苹果的味道？
There isn't a right or wrong answer to this question. This question reveals your ability to think critically. Take a moment to think about how you will respond.
这个问题的答案没有对错，只是考察你是否有能力进行批判性思考。好好想一想你该怎么回答。
One way to answer the question is: 'I would describe the taste of an apple as refreshing because of how juicy they are. While a person may not be able to taste, they can probably feel the juice as they bite into the apple. When I think about apples, I imagine the fresh, juicy sensation that comes with taking my first bite.'
回答这个问题的一种方式是：“我会用'鲜美'一词来描述苹果，因为它们美味多汁。尽管可能有的人没有味觉，但当他们咬上一口，就会感受到那丰盈的果汁。我一想到苹果，就会联想到我第一口咬上去时那新鲜多汁的感觉。”
Even if your answer isn't the same as the rest of candidates interviewing, it shows your ability to think on your toes. Your interviewer will appreciate whatever answer you give as long as you provide a reason for why you chose the description you used.
尽管你的答案与其他面试者的答案不一样，但它展示了你独立思考的能力。只要你能解释出为什么选择这样的描述，无论你的答案是什么，你的面试官都会欣赏的。
Do you have any questions?
你还有什么问题吗？
This is an opportunity for you to determine if you're right for the company, but the interviewer will also use this to uncover what's important to you in your career.
你可以借此机会来确定这个公司是否适合你，但是面试官也会通过这个问题来发现什么是你找工作最看重的方面。
Prepare plenty of questions in advance because most of the answers will likely be covered during the interview itself. When you are given the opportunity to ask questions it's important that you have at least one question to ask.
你要提前准备许多问题，因为大多数问题很有可能在面试过程中得到解答。当给你机会提问时，至少要有一个问题可以问，这十分重要。
Here are a few suggestions: What is the difference between being good and great in this job? What are the opportunities for training and development within the business? What do you enjoy most about the company, culture and your job here?
这里给你一些建议：在这份工作中，干得好和干得出色有什么分别？公司内部有培训和职业发展的机会吗？你最喜欢公司、企业文化和你自己工作中的哪一点？
