The most senior elected US Republican leader said yesterday he had found common ground with Donald Trump as the party took a first step towards bridging deep rifts caused by his campaign for the White House.
美国共和党由选举产生的、职位最高的领袖昨日表示，已找到与唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)之间的共同立场。该党向着弥合特朗普问鼎白宫努力造成的严重分裂迈出了第一步。
Following a meeting on Capitol Hill with Mr Trump, Paul Ryan, Speaker of the House of Representatives, stopped short of endorsing the party’s likely presidential nominee. But they issued a joint statement saying it was “critical” for the party to unite to beat Hillary Clinton in November’s election.
在国会山(Capitol Hill)会晤特朗普之后，众议院议长保罗•瑞安(Paul Ryan)并未表示支持这位共和党最有希望的被提名人。但他们发布了一份联合声明，称对共和党而言，团结起来在11月大选中击败希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)“至关紧要”。
“While we were honest about our few differences, we recognise that there are also many important areas of common ground,” Mr Ryan said later. “We will be having additional discussions, but remain confident there’s a great opportunity to unify our party and win this fall,” the statement said.
But underscoring the differences that remain to be patched over, Mr Ryan declined to back the tycoon, saying it was important not to push for “fake” unity. “I was very encouraged with this meeting, but this is a process. It takes a little time,” he said. The two men did not appear in public together.
但是，突显仍有分歧有待弥合的是，瑞安拒绝对这位地产大亨表示支持，称重要的是不竭力争取“假装的”团结。他说：“这次会晤令我很受鼓舞，但这是一个过程。需要一点时间。”两人并未同时出现在公众面前。
After Mr Trump’s victory in Indiana prompted his last rivals for the Republican candidacy to drop out, he vowed to unite the GOP, which has been deeply divided over his platform and his divisive rhetoric on women, Hispanics and other minorities. While some Republican leaders have reluctantly endorsed him, Mr Ryan joined others in the party establishment last week by declaring that he was “not ready”, despite saying previously that he would support the eventual nominee.
在赢得印第安纳州初选并促使其最后的竞争对手宣布退出角逐之后，特朗普誓言要团结共和党；他的竞选纲领以及他那些有关妇女、西语裔及其他少数族群的引发不和的言论，使共和党陷入了严重分裂。虽然部分共和党领袖不情愿地对他表示了支持，但瑞安上周加入其他共和党建制派人士的行列，宣称自己“并未准备好”，尽管他此前曾表示会支持最终剩下的提名人。
Republican elites are anxious that Mr Trump will damage the party’s long-term future just as it had been trying to expand its support among Hispanics and African-Americans. Some senior Republicans have even privately said that they would vote for Mrs Clinton over Mr Trump. But there is a growing recognition that a lack of unity would greatly hurt their chances of taking the White House.
共和党精英层担心的是，在该党试图扩张在西语裔及非洲裔美国人中的支持率之际，特朗普将会危及共和党的长远未来。一些共和党资深人士甚至私下里表示，他们将投票支持希拉里，而非特朗普。但共和党人也日益认识到，缺少团结将极大地降低该党入主白宫的机会。
“It was a great first step towards unifying the party,” Reince Priebus, the RNC chairman who hosted the discussion between Mr Trump and Mr Ryan, told CNN.
共和党全国委员会(RNC)主席雷恩斯•普瑞巴斯(Reince Priebus)对CNN表示：“这是共和党走向团结的重要的第一步。”普瑞巴斯主持了特朗普与瑞安之间的讨论会。
Mr Trump positioned himself through the primary elections as a self-funded anti-establishment candidate. Since securing the nomination, his overtures to the party establishment have been fleeting. Although he willingly met Mr Ryan, last week he warned he would not need the party infrastructure for fundraising and getting out the vote.
在整个初选期间，特朗普将自己定位为一名自筹资金、反体制的候选人。自从锁定提名以来，他对共和党建制派的态度变幻无常。虽然他积极与瑞安会面，但他在上周警告称，自己并不需要依靠共和党进行筹款或动员投票。
