The Republican establishment is rapidly rallying behind Marco Rubio in an eleventh-hour attempt to derail Donald Trump, amid fears that this week’s Super Tuesday primaries could tighten the brash billionaire’s grip on the party’s nomination.
美国共和党体制内人士正在快速统一认识，以求一致支持马可•鲁比奥(Marco Rubio)，为阻挡唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)作出最后努力。各方担心，本周的“超级星期二”初选可能让这名张扬的亿万富翁有更大把握获得该党总统候选人提名资格。
While Mr Rubio and Mr Trump ramp up their attacks on each other ahead of the March 1 primaries, Republican grandees and lawmakers are turning to the Florida senator as they become increasingly worried that the property tycoon could lock up the GOP presidential nomination within three weeks.
鲁比奥和特朗普在3月1日初选前夕加紧相互攻击，与此同时，共和党大佬和议员纷纷寄望身为佛罗里达州参议员的鲁比奥胜出，因为他们越来越担心，房地产大亨特朗普可能在三周内就锁定共和党总统候选人提名。
They fear that a victory for Mr Trump could fatally fracture the party and prevent the GOP from winning the White House in November. Betting markets now give him an 81 per cent chance of securing the nomination, according to Predictwise, which aggregates prediction markets.
他们担心，特朗普胜出可能导致共和党出现致命分裂，使该党无望在11月问鼎白宫。根据汇集预测市场数据的Predictwise，博彩市场现在认为他有81%的机会获得提名。
Lamar Alexander, a Tennessee senator, on Sunday became the 63rd Republican congressman, senator or governor to back Mr Rubio. Illustrating the animosity towards Mr Trump in the party, the frontrunner has received only four such endorsements, according to FiveThirtyEight.com. Ted Cruz, the Texas senator who is loathed by his Senate peers, has been endorsed by the governor of Texas and 24 congressmen.
田纳西州参议员拉马尔•亚历山大(Lamar Alexander)周日成为第63位宣布支持鲁比奥的共和党众议员、参议员或州长。根据FiveThirtyEight.com网站，突显党内对特朗普反感的是，这位领跑者只获得了四个这样的支持。受到参议院同僚厌恶的得克萨斯州参议员泰德•克鲁斯(Ted Cruz)获得得克萨斯州州长和24名众议员的支持。
Many mainstream Republicans believe that Mr Trump would struggle to beat Hillary Clinton, the clear Democratic frontrunner after her resounding victory over Bernie Sanders in South Carolina on Saturday, given the comments he has made about Hispanics, Muslims, women, disabled people and people who have criticised his campaign.
许多主流共和党人认为，特朗普将难以击败希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)——上周六在南卡罗来纳州大胜伯尼•桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)之后，希拉里已成为民主党总统竞选人的明显领跑者——原因是特朗普曾发表针对西语裔人士、穆斯林、妇女、残疾人以及批评他竞选活动的人士的负面言论，得罪了很多人群。
Mr Trump says he has sparked a “movement” of fans who appreciate his willingness to speak out. In an interview on Sunday, he refused to condemn the Ku Klux Klan, the white supremacist group, telling NBC News, “You wouldn’t want me to condemn a group that I know nothing about”.
特朗普表示，他引发了一个粉丝“运动”，他们欣赏他愿意站出来说话。在周日接受采访时，他拒绝谴责白人至上主义团体三K党(Ku Klux Klan)，他对NBC新闻(NBC News)表示，“你不会希望我谴责一个我一无所知的团体。”
He refused to discuss the fact that he has been backed by David Duke, a former KKK grand wizard, but later tweeted that he had disavowed the endorsement on Friday.
他拒绝讨论他已得到曾担任三K党大祭司的戴维•杜克(David Duke)的支持，尽管他后来在Twitter发帖称，他早在上周五就已表示拒绝接受杜克的支持。
