Dozens of athletes expecting to compete at the coming Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro could be barred from the Games, the International Olympic Committee announced Tuesday. 
里约热内卢夏季奥运会即将到来，本周二，数十名希望参加本届奥运会角逐的运动员被国际奥林匹克委员会(International Olympic Committee)禁赛。
The IOC retested 454 doping samples from the 2008 Summer Games in Beijing, it said, discovering suspicious results among 31 athletes from 12 countries and six sports. The athletes were not publicly identified Tuesday. The countries in question will be notified in coming days, according to a spokesman. 
国际奥委会表示，他们重新测试了2008年北京夏季奥运会的454个兴奋剂样本，发现来自12个国家、六个运动项目的31名运动员测试结果可疑。本周二的公告没有透露这些运动员的身份。国际奥委会发言人说，相关国家将在未来几天内收到通知。
Another 250 doping samples from the 2012 Summer Games in London are due to be retested, officials said, announcing broad scrutiny of athletes who have competed in recent Olympic Games. 
官员表示，2012年伦敦夏季奥运会的另外250个兴奋剂样品也进行重新测试；近几年来参加过奥运会的运动员正在受到广泛监督。
The announcement came in the wake of a detailed account last week by the former longtime director of Russia’s anti-doping lab, Grigory Rodchenkov, who said he worked for years at the direction of the Russian government to help the country’s top athletes use banned, performance-enhancing substances and go undetected. 
这份通告出现之前，曾长期担任俄罗斯反兴奋剂实验室主任的格里戈里·罗琴科夫(Grigory Rodchenkov)上周做出详细说明，表示自己在俄罗斯政府的指示下，多年来一直帮助该国的顶级运动员使用可以提高比赛成绩的违禁药物，而且从未被发现。
Rodchenkov told The New York Times that Russian athletes had doped leading up to the 2008 Beijing Games, the 2012 London Games and throughout the course of the 2014 Sochi Games, when Russia controlled the Olympic testing laboratory. He described an overnight operation in which he and a small team had substituted Russian athletes’ tainted urine for clean urine, stockpiled in the months leading up to competition and passed surreptitiously through a hole in the wall of the lab building.
罗琴科夫告诉《纽约时报》，在2008年北京奥运会和2012年伦敦奥运会开赛前，以及整个2014年索契奥运会期间，俄罗斯运动员都有服用兴奋剂。索契奥运会期间，俄罗斯更是把控了奥林匹克兴奋剂检测实验室。他讲到，当时他和一个小团队在夜间将俄罗斯运动员有药物成分的尿样换成比赛开始几个月前采集的没有问题的尿样，通过实验室墙壁上的一个小洞传递尿检瓶。
 Reacting to that account, the IOC called a special meeting of its executive board, which convened by phone Tuesday. In a statement released after that call, the IOC addressed Rodchenkov’s claims, repeating its calls for the World Anti-Doping Agency to initiate “a fully fledged investigation into allegations that testing at the Sochi Laboratory was subverted.” 
国际奥委会(IOC)对他描述的情况做出反应，召集理事会在周二召开了一个特别电话会议。之后，国际奥委会发布了一份声明，谈到罗琴科夫所说的情况，并再次呼吁世界反兴奋剂机构(World Anti-Doping Agency)“对索契奥运会期间实验室检测被做手脚这一指控展开全面的调查”。
But even with new scrutiny of athletes’ past performance and the possible ejection of Olympians who have doped from the Rio Games, which start Aug. 5, questions hang over the Olympic drug-testing operation. 
然而，即便针对运动员过去的表现展开新的调查，或许会禁止几名服用兴奋剂的奥林匹克运动员参加8月5日开始的里约奥运会，但还有诸多问题依然笼罩着奥运会的药物检测操作。
“People are celebrating Olympic champion winners, but we are sitting crazy and replacing their urine,” Rodchenkov said, reflecting on the nights he spent secretly working in a storage closet at the Sochi Games. “Can you imagine how Olympic sport is organized?”
“人们在庆祝奥运冠军的诞生，我们却处于快要发疯的状态，忙着调换他们的尿样，”回忆自己在索契奥运会期间的多个夜晚在一个储藏室内的秘密行动时，罗琴科夫这样说。“你能想象奥运会是这样办的吗？”
