LOS ANGELES — Dozens of Russian athletes at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, including at least 15 medal winners, were part of a state-run doping program, meticulously planned for years to ensure dominance at the games, according to the director of the country’s antidoping laboratory at the time. 
洛杉矶——数十名参加2014年索契冬奥会(Winter Olympics)的俄罗斯运动员，包括至少15名奖牌获得者，都曾被纳入由俄罗斯政府展开的兴奋剂计划，该计划是多年精心策划的产物，旨在确保本国运动员在赛场上胜出，俄罗斯当时的反兴奋剂实验室主任如是说。
The director, Grigory Rodchenkov, who ran the laboratory that handled testing for thousands of Olympians, said he developed a three-drug cocktail of banned substances that he mixed with liquor and provided to dozens of Russian athletes, helping to facilitate one of the most elaborate — and successful — doping ploys in sports history. 
此人名叫格里戈里·罗琴科夫(Grigory Rodchenkov)，他当时掌管的实验室曾负责数以千计的奥林匹克运动员的兴奋剂测试事宜。他说自己研究出一种包含三种违禁物质和烈酒的鸡尾酒，并将其提供给数十名俄罗斯运动员，帮助促成了一项复杂和成功程度在体育史上居于前列的兴奋剂计划。
It involved some of Russia’s biggest stars of the games, including 14 members of its cross-country ski team and two veteran bobsledders who won two golds. 
该计划牵涉到俄罗斯的一些最大牌的体育竞技明星，包括越野滑雪队的14名成员，以及得了两枚金牌的两名雪车老将。
In a dark-of-night operation, Russian antidoping experts and members of the intelligence services surreptitiously replaced urine samples tainted by performance-enhancing drugs with clean urine collected months earlier, somehow breaking into the supposedly tamper-proof bottles that are the standard at international competitions, Rodchenkov said. For hours each night, they worked in a shadow laboratory lit by a single lamp, passing bottles of urine through a hand-size hole in the wall, to be ready for testing the next day, he said. 
罗琴科夫说，经过秘密操作，俄罗斯反兴奋剂专家和情报机构人员偷偷地把含有改善运动员表现的药物成分的尿样，换成了几个月前采集的没有问题的尿样，他们用某种办法搞定了那些在国际赛事中常用的、据信可以防止掉包的尿检瓶。每天晚上，他们都要在只点着一盏灯的昏暗实验室里忙好几个小时，通过墙壁上巴掌大的一个小洞传递尿检瓶，以便为第二天的测试做好准备。
By the end of the games, Rodchenkov estimated, as many as 100 dirty urine samples were expunged. 
据罗琴科夫估计，到索契冬奥会结束时，被销毁的含有违禁成分的尿样最多达100份。
None of the athletes were caught doping. More important, Russia won the most medals of the games, easily surpassing its main rival, the United States. 
相关运动员都通过了兴奋剂测试。更重要的是，俄罗斯是这届冬奥会中获得奖牌数最多的国家，轻松地超越了其主要对手美国。
“People are celebrating Olympic champion winners, but we are sitting crazy and replacing their urine,” Rodchenkov said. “Can you imagine how Olympic sport is organized?” 
“人们在庆祝奥运冠军的诞生，我们却处于快要发疯的状态，忙着调换他们的尿样，”罗琴科夫说。“你能想象奥运会是这样办的吗？”
After The New York Times asked Russian officials to respond to the claims, Russia’s sports minister, Vitaly Mutko, released a statement to the news media calling the revelations “a continuation of the information attack on Russian sport.” 
在《纽约时报》请俄罗斯官员就上述言论置评之后，俄罗斯体育部长维塔利·穆特科(Vitaly Mutko)向媒体发了一份声明，把这种披露称为“针对俄罗斯体育界的信息攻击的延续”。
Rodchenkov laid out the details of the operation over three days of interviews that were arranged by an American filmmaker, Bryan Fogel, who is working on a documentary that involves Rodchenkov. 
罗琴科夫在美国电影制作人布莱恩·福格尔(Bryan Fogel)的安排下接受了为期三天的采访，披露了兴奋剂计划的诸多细节。福格尔目前正在拍一部纪录片，罗琴科夫是拍摄对象之一。
Rodchenkov’s account could not be independently verified, but it was consistent with the broad findings of a report published last year by the World Anti-Doping Agency. He provided The Times with emails detailing doping efforts and a spreadsheet that he said was sent to him by the sports ministry before the Sochi Games. It named the athletes involved in the doping program. 
罗琴科夫的说法未能得到独立验证，但它和世界反兴奋剂机构(World Anti-Doping Agency，简称WADA)去年发布的 一份报告的主要结论相吻合。他向时报提供了关乎兴奋剂计划细节的邮件，以及据他说是体育部在索契冬奥会开幕前发给他的一份电子表格。表格上列有被纳入兴奋剂计划的运动员的名字。
Rodchenkov described his own work at Sochi as a “strong accomplishment,” the apex of a decade-long effort to perfect Russia’s doping strategy at international competitions.
罗琴科夫说他在索契的工作“成果斐然”，俄罗斯为完善针对国际赛事的兴奋剂策略而进行的为期10年的努力由此达到了巅峰。
“We were fully equipped, knowledgeable, experienced and perfectly prepared for Sochi like never before,” he said. “It was working like a Swiss watch.” 
“我们当时有足够多的知识和经验，而且为索契冬奥会做了充足的准备，这是以前从未有过的，”他说。“每一步都像瑞士表一样精确。”
After Sochi, Rodchenkov was awarded the prestigious Order of Friendship by President Vladimir Putin. Six months ago, however, he had a dramatic change in fortune. 
索契冬奥会结束后，罗琴科夫被弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)总统授予了颇具声望的友谊勋章(Order of Friendship)。然而，六个月后，他的命运发生了戏剧性的转折。
In November, the World Anti-Doping Agency identified Rodchenkov as the linchpin in what it described as an extensive state-sponsored doping program in Russia, accusing him of extorting money from athletes — the only accusation he denies — as well as covering up positive drug tests and destroying hundreds of urine samples. 
去年11月，WADA认定，在其所说的得到俄罗斯政府支持、牵涉广泛的兴奋剂计划中，罗琴科夫是关键角色。WADA指控他向运动员勒索钱财——这是唯一一项遭到罗琴科夫否认的指控——并掩盖阳性测试结果，销毁数以百计的尿样。
After the report came out, Rodchenkov said, Russian officials forced him to resign. Fearing for his safety, he moved to Los Angeles, with the help of Fogel. 
相关报告出炉后，罗琴科夫说，俄罗斯官员强迫他辞职。由于担心自己的安危，他在福格尔的帮助下搬到了洛杉矶。
Back in Russia, two of Rodchenkov’s close colleagues died unexpectedly in February, within weeks of each other; both were former antidoping officials, one who resigned soon after Rodchenkov fled the country. 
而在俄罗斯，和罗琴科夫关系密切的两位同事在连续两周内意外死亡；两人都曾是反兴奋剂部门的官员，其中一人在罗琴科夫逃到美国后不久辞去了职务。
The November report was primarily focused on track and field, but Rodchenkov described the whole spectrum of Russian sport as tainted by banned substances. Admitting to more than what WADA investigators accused him of, he said it was not hundreds of urine samples that he destroyed but rather several thousand, in last-ditch efforts to mask the extent of the country’s doping. 
去年11月的那份报告主要聚焦于田径赛事。但罗琴科夫指出，整个俄罗斯体育界都存在使用违禁药品的情况。他承认自己销毁的尿样数量比WADA所指控的还要多，不是几百份，而是几千份，旨在为掩盖该国兴奋剂问题的严重程度做最后的努力。
Rodchenkov said he received the spreadsheet naming athletes on the doping program on Jan. 21, 2014, two weeks before the games and shortly after he arrived in Sochi to begin work at the Olympic laboratory. It was to be used for reference during competition, Rodchenkov said, and outlined the competition schedule for each athlete. If any of them won a medal, their urine samples had to be substituted. 
罗琴科夫说，2014年1月21日，也是就索契冬奥会开幕两星期之前，他在索契的奥林匹克实验室开始工作不久之后，收到了那份列出被纳入兴奋剂计划的运动员名字的表格。罗琴科夫说，在冬奥会举办期间作参考之用的那份表格，对相关运动员的比赛日程做了说明。如果他们中的哪一个人得到了奖牌，就要将其尿样掉包。
Rodchenkov’s revelations, his first public comments since fleeing, come at a crucial moment for Russia. In November, in the wake of the WADA report, the country was provisionally suspended from international track and field competition; in the coming weeks, leaders of the sport’s global governing body will decide whether to lift a ban ahead of this summer’s Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. 
这是罗琴科夫逃离俄罗斯以后首次公开披露相关信息，他选择的是对俄罗斯而言相当关键的时机。去年11月，WADA的报告出炉后，俄罗斯被暂时禁止参加田径国际赛事；再过几个星期，田径运动全球管理机构的领导人将决定是否在今年夏天的里约热内卢奥运会开幕前解除禁令。
Responding to the cascade of accusations, Putin called for an inquiry, but Russian officials have been largely dismissive of claims about widespread doping by the country’s athletes. 
作为对这一连串指控的回应，普京要求启动调查，但俄罗斯官员基本对该国运动员被控广泛使用兴奋剂一事不屑一顾。
The Times submitted questions about the revelations to the sports ministry and six of its sports federations whose athletes were identified as part of the doping program. Instead of responding directly, Mutko, the minister, organized a news conference with journalists from the state-run news agency TASS, calling the Times inquiry baseless and suggesting it was part of an attempt to discredit Russian sports ahead of the Rio Games. 
时报就罗琴科夫披露的信息拟定了问题清单，并提交给俄罗斯体育部及其下属的六个体育协会——受这些协会管理的运动员被指认参加了兴奋剂计划。穆特科部长并未直接作出回应，而是组织召开了面向国有新闻通讯社塔斯社(TASS)记者的新闻发布会。他说时报的质问毫无根据，并暗示这是里约奥运会开幕前又一抹黑俄罗斯体育界之举。
“The system of organization of the Olympic Games was completely transparent,” Mutko told TASS. “Everything was under the control of international experts — from the collection of samples to their analysis.” Rodchenkov said the sports ministry actively guided the doping effort. In the six months before the games, he said, he met with Mutko’s deputy, Yuri Nagornykh, in a second-floor office at the ministry’s palatial Moscow headquarters at least once a week. 
“索契冬奥会的组织系统是完全透明的，”穆特科告诉塔斯社。“一切都在国际专家的控制之下——从样本的采集到分析。”罗琴科夫则表示，体育部是兴奋剂计划的积极引导者。他说在冬奥会召开前的六个月时间里，他每周至少和穆特科的副手尤里·纳格尤科(Yuri Nagornykh)碰一次面，地点为体育部富丽堂皇的莫斯科总部大楼二楼的一间办公室。
In an email, Nagornykh denied the existence of a doping program. “I have nothing to hide,” he wrote.
在一封邮件中，纳格尤科否认存在兴奋剂计划。“我没有什么可隐藏的，”他写道。
