 Iceland’s prime minister resigned yesterday, the first casualty of the global revelations over offshore companies.
 冰岛总理西格蒙杜尔•戴维•贡劳格松(Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson)昨日辞职，成为全球离岸公司丑闻曝光后的首位落马者。
 For the second time in a decade the island of just 320,000 -people has become a focus of global attention over financial excesses, even as it remains deeply divided over the collapse of its banks in 2008.
 这是这个人口只有32万的国家10年内第二次因金融过度行为成为全球关注的焦点，目前冰岛仍因2008年国内银行破产分歧严重。
 “This is the second phase. The first phase was the practical part of clearing up after a massive banking failure. What we are looking at now is the bankruptcy of politics and -certain politicians,” said Huginn Thorsteinsson, a leftwing political consultant.
 左翼政治顾问休金•索尔斯坦松(Huginn Thorsteinsson)表示：“这是第二阶段。第一阶段是在银行大规模破产后进行清理的实际部分。我们现在关注的是政治和某些政治人士的破产。”
 On a day of high drama in Reykjavik, Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson first tried to hang on to power by seeking the dissolution of parliament. But after Iceland’s president refused to grant the request, Mr Gunnlaugsson decided to step down as prime minister but carry on as the head of his centre-right Progressive party.
 在冰岛极具戏剧性的一天，贡劳格松起初试图通过解散议会保留权力。但在冰岛总统拒绝这一请求后，贡劳格松决定辞去总理职位，但仍继续担任他所在的中右翼进步党(Progressive party)主席一职。
 The two-party coalition is aiming to stay in government ahead of elections next year but that could provoke an outcry. As many as 22,000 people on Monday took to the streets of Reykjavik — more than during the 2008-09 financial crisis — to protest against the prime minister’s alleged conduct.
 由两党组成的执政联盟计划在明年大选前仍执政，但可能引发抗议。周一，2.2万人走上雷克雅未克街头（超过2008年至2009年金融危机期间）抗议冰岛总理被指的行为。
 “It is causing huge anger in Iceland because of the connotations with the banks in the past,” Mr Thorsteinsson said.
 索尔斯坦松表示：“由于与过去破产银行的关系，这正引起冰岛人民的极大愤慨。”
 Mr Gunnlaugsson once owned part of an offshore group, now controlled by his wife, that owned claims in the Icelandic banks that collapsed in 2008, roiling the country’s financial and political systems. Although the economy has recovered since the crisis, Iceland is divided politically.
 贡劳格松曾经是一家离岸公司的持股者，如今该公司由他的妻子控股，该公司持有在2008年破产的冰岛银行的债权，这些银行的破产在该国金融和政治体系掀起轩然大波。尽管自金融危机以来冰岛经济已复苏，但该国在政治上仍然分化。
