Ma Huateng, founder, chairman and CEO of Tencent Holdings, will make five suggestions at the National People's Congress annual session, which opens on Saturday, in areas including the development of a sharing economy, Internet-based medical services and security of the Internet ecosystem.
腾讯公司创始人、董事会主席兼首席执行官马化腾5日在全国人大会议上提交五项建议，内容涉及分享经济的发展，互联网医疗服务及互联网生态安全。
The sharing economy will become a new driving force in China's economic growth and will help push the service industry as the main engine of the economy, said Ma, whose company is China's largest Internet service portal.
腾讯公司是中国最大的互联网服务门户，马化腾表示分享经济将成为推动中国经济发展的新动力，助力服务业成为拉动中国经济的主引擎。
Sharing economy refers to a phenomenon where individuals share their spare resources via third-party online platforms to make money. Ride-sharing service apps Uber and Didi Kuaidi and lodging website Airbnb are examples of popular online platforms for the sharing economy.
分享经济是指个体通过第三方网络平台分享其闲置资源从而获得收入。租车服务软件“优步”和“滴滴快的”以及住宿网站Airbnb均为分享经济的网络平台，颇受人们的青睐。
The market size for the sharing economy in the country surpassed 1 trillion yuan ($152.8 billion) in 2015, while the sharing economy in the United States was worth more than 3 trillion yuan and accounted for 3 percent of US GDP last year, Ma said in his suggestions.
马化腾在其建议中指出，2015年中国分享经济市场规模超过1万亿元，而同年美国分享经济总量超过3万亿元，占美国GDP的比重为3%。
"The sharing economy still has considerable room for development in China," Ma said.
马化腾说：“我国的分享经济还有很大发展空间。”
He cited several problems that are inhibiting the development of the sharing economy in China, including the need for an improved credit investigation system and better Internet infrastructure.
他还提出制约中国分享经济发展的几个问题，如国内征信制度不够健全，网络基础设施有待完善。
"The supervision of the sharing economy is still the same as that of traditional industries, which makes it difficult to innovate," he said.
马化腾提到，“对于分享经济的监管，仍然坚持传统行业的管理理念，不利于行业创新”。
Tencent, based in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, is active in the Internet Plus campaign. It signed strategic cooperative agreements with 45 cities in 13 provinces and autonomous regions across China last year to help them transform their economic development through big data, cloud computing and other technologies.
腾讯公司积极响应国家“互联网+”战略。2015年，腾讯公司与遍布国内13个省份及自治区的共45座城市签署战略合作协议，帮助这些城市借助大数据和云计算等技术实现经济发展转型。
"In the Internet Plus age, we face more challenges in terms of information security. Traditional means are not updated enough to crack down on cybercrimes. China should build a security system to protect the mobile Internet ecosystem," Ma said.
马化腾表示，“‘互联网+’时代面临更多的信息安全问题挑战。面对新型网络犯罪不断转化升级，传统打击手段明显滞后，应全面构建我国移动互联网生态安全体系。”
As for the suggestion concerning Internet-based medical services, Ma recommended that healthcare authorities encourage IT companies to participate in the development of graded diagnosis and treatment services in China.
在有关互联网医疗服务的建议中，马化腾建议医疗机构积极鼓励信息技术企业参与进来，共同推动中国分级诊疗服务发展。
"With remote education and remote medical care via the Internet, we can strengthen medical training and cultivate more reliable doctors at the grassroots level," Ma said. "We should, especially, get the doctors at the grassroots level into the habit of using mobile medical devices to monitor the health condition of middle-aged and elderly people."
他还表示，“可通过远程教育与远程医疗等手段加强基层医疗培训，培养更多合格的值得信赖的医生。特别是，培养基层医生使用移动医疗设备的习惯，做好中老年人的健康管理。”
To optimize the allocation of medical resources, Ma advised the government to remove the "hidden obstacles" that prevent doctors from becoming freelancers.
马化腾向政府提议，应逐步消除让医生成为“自由人”的“隐性障碍”，从而优化医疗资源的配置效率。
He also proposed the establishment of a system for electronic health records, optimized for mobile Internet devices, so that individuals and hospitals both have convenient access to information.
他还提议建立电子健康档案制度，使个人和医院能够利用移动互联设备便利地获取健康信息。
