A shy, stammering young man fails to enroll at his dream university. He takes a trip to Thailand as a consolation, but it turns out to be a mess, full of unexpected pitfalls.
他是腼腆，还有点结巴的小年青，刚大学落榜。他踏上了去泰国的疗伤之旅，可结果却变成了一场意外迭出的大麻烦。
It’s a complicated role, full of emotional ups and downs–definitely not the kind of role you’d give a young actor who is “fresh meat” in the movie industry. But 18-year-old Liu Haoran was ready to take on the challenge.
这是一个复杂的角色，充满了情绪上的大起大落，不像是影坛“小鲜肉”可以驾驭的。不过，18岁的刘昊然蓄势待发，接受挑战。
The new film Detective Chinatown (《唐人街探案》) is only Liu’s second film, but it’s his first real hurdle as an actor. He stars as Qin Feng, an ingenious but awkward teenager who is addicted to detective novels. As he travels to Thailand, he finds himself embroiled in a murder mystery.
新片《唐人街探案》是刘昊然的第二部电影，也是他第一次真正面临当演员的挑战。他饰演的秦风是一位机灵却拧巴的少年，他沉迷于侦探小说。当他在泰国旅行时，意外发现自己被卷入了一场神秘谋杀案。
The story is a departure from Liu’s previous work. His debut role was as a high school student in Beijing Love Story (《北京爱情故事》). That one was no sweat, and in his words, he was playing “my life and my story”.
这故事和刘昊然的上一部戏完全不同。他的电影处女作是《北京爱情故事》，本色出演一位的高中生。他表演起来不费吹灰之力，用他自己的话说就是演“我自己的生活和故事”。
When Harper’s Bazaar asked Liu to describe himself, he chose three phrases: sunshine, healthy and positive energy. His character Qin Feng, however, is the opposite. Qin struggles with internal demons, and his ultimate dream is to commit a watertight crime.
《时尚芭莎》让刘昊然用三个词儿形容自己，他选择了：阳光、健康和正能量。然而，秦风这一角色恰恰相反。秦风一直和自己内心的魔鬼斗争，他的终极梦想是实施一场完美的犯罪。
“He’s different from me in many aspects... But during the process of understanding and interpreting the role, I also discovered another side of myself,” Liu told Sohu Entertainment.
Liu has been slapped with the label of “little fresh meat”, a term which has been widely applied to young male actors since Li Yifeng’s rise to national fame in the TV series Swords of Legends (《古剑奇谭》) in 2014. These actors, represented by Li, Jin Boran and William Chan (陈伟霆), were born after 1985 and first gained attention through talent shows. Without specialized acting training, they have wasted a few years wavering between a career in singing or acting. Many still struggle to be recognized as professional actors.
刘昊然一直被冠以“小鲜肉”的称号。2014年李易峰凭借《古剑奇谭》火了之后，“小鲜肉”常被用来形容年轻男演员。以李易峰、井柏然、陈伟霆等从选秀节目上初露头角的艺人为代表，“小鲜肉”明星几乎都是85后。没有受过专业的表演培训，他们曾在演戏还是唱歌之间摇摆不定，还有一些为了成为专业演员而不停奋斗着。
To piggyback on the popularity of “little fresh meat” actors, some older actors are even dressing like teenagers in films – as convincingly as a mutton dressed as a lamb.
“小鲜肉”火得不要不要的，让一些老腊肉演员倍感压力，他们也在电影中扮起了嫩，却更让人觉得是老黄瓜刷绿漆。
Unfortunately, actors cannot live by their pretty faces alone. Few moviegoers would pay to just see an actor’s face. High quality plots and acting are expected.
悲催的是，演员不能一直只靠脸。很少有观众只冲着演员的颜值买票。高质量的情节和精湛的演技才是大家期待的。
Having starred in a production like Detective Chinatown, Liu is already ahead of many actors in his age cohort. With his youth and strong performances, critics have reason to be optimistic about his future.
参演了《唐人街探案》这样的影片，刘昊然已经相比不少同龄演员赢在了起跑线上。他的年龄优势和卖力的演出让评论家们有理由相信，他未来前途无量。
