You may think your office is tidy, organized and clean, but the truth would likely shock you — the bacterial population in offices is on average 400 times higher than in bathrooms.
If your office happens to be in a commercial building where people use an elevator to move between floors, the elevator buttons can easily hold and transfer germs. In a study at Arizona University, it was determined that there are over 540 germs per square centimeter on elevator buttons—17 times more than on toilet seats.
Not many people think of cleaning microwave or refrigerator handles around the office, but everyone uses them. The grease on these handles can support colonies of bacteria. What's more, since people use these appliances when they are eating, they are more likely to become sick from the germs.
Water faucets in the bathroom or break room are another favorite hiding place for MRSA and other germs. People wash their dirty hands, but no one ever thinks of washing the dirty tap handle. Consequently, it's easy to pick up germs immediately after washing your hands, as you turn off the tap.
This one should come as no surprise. You wouldn't believe the amount of germs and grime that a keyboard can hold. Touching your eyes or nose, or eating while typing, can easily make you very sick.
If many people share a telephone at your office, you should probably take precautions when using it yourself. The buttons and handset can both hold germs and transfer infections. Research shows that germs on a phone's handset can reach as high a concentration as 162,000 per square centimeter.
Printers in offices can be another vehicle for spreading infections. Hundreds of hands touch the printer every day. Research shows that there is a surprising amount of fecal bacteria, escherichia coli and staphylococcus aureus on the touch screen of a printer. Moreover, the warm environment of the printer makes it even easier for bacteria to thrive.
Even though your office desk looks clean and tidy, that does not mean it is germ-free. In fact, even a clean office desk can hold over 20,000 bacteria. If you have the habit of snacking or doing make-up at your desk, the number could be even higher.
