 The bomb atrocities in Brussels are a reminder, if any were needed after last November’s jihadi assault on Paris, of how easy it is for terrorist cells to attack neuralgic targets in European cities and bring them to a standstill.
 布鲁塞尔发生的炸弹暴行是一个提醒（如果说在去年11月巴黎遭到圣战攻击后，还需要任何提醒的话）：恐怖小组攻击欧洲城市的神经中枢目标、使之陷入瘫痪有多么容易。
 What appears to have been a double suicide attack in the departure hall at Zaventem airport, and an even deadlier bombing in a metro train at Maalbeek station, next to several EU headquarters in the heart of Brussels, killed at least 30 people and wounded around 180 more, some of them critically. The city went into lockdown.
 在扎芬特姆机场(Zaventem airport)出发大厅发生的貌似双重自杀式袭击，以及一列地铁列车在布鲁塞尔市中心、靠近数个欧盟大楼的马埃勒贝克站发生的更具杀伤力的爆炸，已造成至少30人遇难，还有约180人受伤，其中一些人伤势严重。布鲁塞尔市已进入封城状态。
 A claim of responsibility on an Isis website indicates this was the work of local cells inspired by their millenarianism, using the Paris model they adapted from a jihadist attack on Mumbai in 2008. The attacks come after last Friday’s arrest of Salah Abdeslam, in a Brussels suburb known for being a jihadi nest, who was wanted as the surviving perpetrator of the Paris carnage. His local accomplices may have brought forward plans to strike Brussels for fear that his detention would lead to their detection.
 “伊拉克和黎凡特伊斯兰国”(ISIS)的一个网站发表了声称对此次连环爆炸负责的声明，声明显示，这起连环爆炸案是受该组织末日理念启发的当地恐怖小组所为，采用了巴黎恐袭的模式，而该模式借鉴了2008年圣战分子对孟买发起的攻击。这起爆炸案发生之前，被通缉的巴黎恐袭生还肇事者萨拉赫阿卜杜勒-萨拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)上周五在布鲁塞尔郊区落网，当地是一个已知的圣战分子老巢。他在当地的同伙可能提前实施了攻击布鲁塞尔的计划，担心他被抓将导致他们的计谋败露。
 Such horror calls out for firm but measured conclusions. Europe cannot cocoon itself from the arc of fire to its east and south, the killing fields that run from Iraq and Syria to Libya. That is made obvious not just by terror attacks but the European Union’s inability to act together to deal with the waves of refugees from these and other countries — a dispiriting response that betrays the values of the union.
 此类恐怖行为要求得出坚定但有分寸的结论。欧洲避不开其以东和以南的战火弧线，即从伊拉克和叙利亚延伸至利比亚的杀戮场。使这一点显而易见的不只是恐怖袭击，还有欧盟未能团结行动，应对来自上述国家和其他国家的难民潮——那是一个背叛欧盟价值观的令人沮丧的回应。
 Brussels is not just the capital of Belgium but of the EU, which is being challenged to show it has the resilience to confront what will be a long and ugly conflict. Isis is making the case for “more Europe” in security.
 布鲁塞尔不仅是比利时首都，也是欧盟首都；欧盟正受到挑战，要求它拿出韧性，迎接一场漫长而丑陋的冲突。ISIS的所作所为证明，有必要在安全事务上强化欧洲团结。
 There are obvious practical measures that need urgently to happen, chief among them better intelligence-sharing about jihadi networks. Belgium, with multiple and overlapping layers of government that do not talk to each other, presents a particular problem. The federal government warned after Mr Abdeslam’s arrest that it might trigger an attack, but was powerless to stop it. But there needs to be far greater pooling of information in real time across the EU and with its allies. After Paris, remember, Mr Abdeslam’s car was checked by police at the French border with Belgium but they seem to have had no idea who he was.
 有一些明显的实用措施迫切需要落实到位，其中最主要的是改进有关圣战分子网络的情报共享。在这方面，具有多级且相互重叠的政府层面的比利时，带来一个特别的问题。联邦政府曾警告称，阿卜杜勒-萨拉姆被捕可能触发一场攻击，结果却未能阻止攻击发生。但是，在欧盟各国乃至欧盟与盟友之间，需要大力加强实时情报共享。别忘了，在巴黎恐袭发生后，阿卜杜勒-萨拉姆乘坐的汽车曾在法国和比利时边境被警察拦下，但警方当时似乎对他一无所知。
 Member states need also to learn more about minority communities and what motivates their members. This is not just about ostensible religious affiliation but the search for identity of some Muslim youth, disaffected and directionless but offered a deranged superhero status by Isis and its ilk. It is chastening to learn Mr Abdeslam, pursued across the continent, was hidden by neighbours for four months.
 欧盟各成员国也需要更多地了解少数族裔，以及他们受到什么信念的激励。这不只关乎表面上的宗教信仰，也关乎某些穆斯林青年对身份认同的搜寻，他们不满，失去方向，却被ISIS之流提供了变态超级英雄的地位。整个欧洲大陆追捕的阿卜杜勒-萨拉姆竟然被邻居隐藏了4个月，这一点值得深思。
 Above all, the EU and the west need constantly to demonstrate the values they defend, eschewing simplistic bombast and knee-jerk repression. For Donald Trump, the Republican frontrunner to contest the US presidency, Brussels is another brick in the wall he purports to believe will keep Muslims and Mexicans out of the US. For Marine Le Pen of France’s far-right Front National, an attack on the EU capital is an excuse to call for a Battle of Algiers-style razzia — a vast armed police raid — on immigrant “neighbourhoods on the fringes of the Republic”.
 最重要的是，欧盟乃至西方需要不断展现他们捍卫的价值观，避免简单化的夸夸其谈和下意识的压制。美国共和党总统候选人领跑者唐纳德礠朗普(Donald Trump)声称，他相信一堵高墙会把穆斯林和墨西哥人挡在美国门外，而布鲁塞尔为这堵高墙又添一块砖。对于法国极右翼政党国民阵线(Front National)的马琳勒庞(Marine Le Pen)，欧盟首都遭到的攻击提供了一个借口，让她呼吁进行一场阿尔及尔之役(Battle of Algiers)式的镇压：由配备枪械的警察对“共和国边缘的移民社区”发起大规模突袭。
 Such policies undermine our open societies, built on individual and collective freedoms and religious tolerance. Together they would run up the white flag of surrender. Isis and its acolytes are learning how to tear apart our civic fabric. We need to make that civility more resilient, not do their work for them.
 此类政策削弱我们所处的建立在个人和集体自由以及宗教宽容基础上的开放社会。加在一起，它们相当于举起投降的白旗。ISIS及其追随者正在学会如何撕裂我们的文明体系。我们需要使那种文明更具韧性，而不是成全他们的目的。
