The meteoric growth of Huawei, the Chinese telecoms group, is reflected in its changing presence at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.
中国电信集团华为(Huawei)飞快的成长速度，就体现在它出席巴塞罗那世界移动大会(Mobile World Congress)的排场变化上。
When the company first attended the world’s biggest telecoms event in 2003, it was forced to take a tent on the beach after it missed out on a place in the official conference hall.
2003年这家企业首次参加这一全球最大电信盛会时，由于未能获得正式会议厅中的展位，该公司不得不在海滩上占据了一个帐篷的位置。
“Everyone walked around asking ‘Who is Huawei’?,” Vincent Peng, its European president, tells the Financial Times days before the event. “People questioned if the Chinese can even make telecoms infrastructure; how long we were going to be in Europe; if we were just there to look at the market.”
大会开幕几天前，华为西欧地区总裁彭博(Vincent Peng)向英国《金融时报》表示：“每个路过的人都在问：‘华为是谁？’甚至有人问，中国能生产电信基础设备吗？我们打算在欧洲待多久？我们到那里去是不是只是为了看一下市场？”
This year a company that has become the third-largest smartphone vendor in the world will occupy half of one of the enormous hangers that houses the event to show off its latest network services and products.
今年，华为将占据大会所在的其中一个巨大机库的一半，展示其最新网络服务和产品。
Huawei’s area is no longer protected by a large barrier as in previous years but instead opened up to show its latest technologies. Executives were just as open, keen to stress the group wanted to work with the rest of telecoms industry to develop next generation, 5G networks.
华为的展区不再像往年那样用巨大的屏障保护起来，而是开放式的，向人们展示着其最新的技术。高管们也同样开放，他们主动强调该集团希望与电信业同行合作，开发下一代的5G网络技术。
Guo Ping, one of Huawei’s rotating chief executives, says: “China, the European Union and other countries are already discussing 5G standards. We hope stakeholders can reach consensus on the standards.”
华为轮值首席执行官之一郭平表示：“中国、欧盟(EU)和其他国家已经在讨论5G标准。我们希望各相关方面能够就该标准达成一致。”
Huawei is on a par with the world’s largest equipment supplier, Ericsson, which has seven R&D centres across the continent and employs 1,200 people.
华为与全球最大电信设备供应商爱立信(Ericsson)规模不相上下，已成为全球第三大智能手机商，仅在欧洲就有7个研发中心、雇有1200人。
Yet Mr Peng said more could be done to extend its business on the continent.
不过，彭博表示，在向欧洲拓展业务方面，华为还有努力的空间。
The company is working to develop an “ecosystem” around connected cities, which Mr Peng refers to as the third stage of the group’s plans in Europe after initial success in selling its products was followed by the development of its telecoms operations in the region.
该公司眼下正努力开发围绕互联城市的“生态系统”。彭博称，这是该公司欧洲计划的第三阶段。在此之前，继在欧洲销售产品的计划取得初步成功之后，该公司已开始在欧洲发展电信业务。
“We want to bring in local partners. If we can make the solutions work in Europe then we can help them sell to the rest of the world,” he says. In consumer mobile, Huawei is still “second tier”.
The company wants to add to its stable of high-end devices with the next iteration of its flagship range of phones called the P9. Mr Peng says they will have an advanced camera and specifications to match the top selling handsets of rivals such as Apple and Samsung. The devices will use Huawei’s own chip set, which it claims has improved power consumption and battery life.
该公司希望把名为P9的下一代旗舰系列手机加入到其高端产品线中。彭博表示，该系列配备先进的摄像头和技术参数，可以与苹果(Apple)、三星(Samsung)等对手的畅销机型一较高下。P9系列将采用华为自己的芯片组，据称将更省电、电池寿命更长。
The company also plans to spend more on sponsorship and advertising to develop its brand, and intends to open its first flagship retail stores.
华为还计划提高赞助和广告方面的支出，以打造自身品牌，并有意开设首家旗舰零售店。
“We have a quite big gap compared to tier one. That is what we are working on,” he said.
“相比第一梯队，我们还有一个相当大的差距。这是我们正在努力的地方，”他说。
Huawei has even more ambitious plans in its telecoms network building division, which still accounts for about 70 per cent of sales.
在电信网络架构业务上，华为制定了更加雄心勃勃的计划，目前该业务依然约占华为销售额的70%。
Mr Peng wants to join forces with European technology groups to develop suites of services and applications that will enable connected homes and cities, the so-called internet of things.
彭博希望能和欧洲科技公司合作开发能够连接住宅和城市的服务和应用套组，即所谓的物联网。
So-called “innovation labs” will be established in cities such as in Munich, Paris and Amsterdam.
华为将在慕尼黑、巴黎和阿姆斯特丹等城市设立所谓的“创新实验室”。
“We have picked some cities to demonstrate to the world that this is the way to live and work. [Smart cities] want the whole end-to-end solution — from connectivity, infrastructure, content, applications.”
“我们挑选了一些城市，向世界展示，这就是生活和工作的应有方式。（智慧城市）想要的是全套端对端解决方案，从连通性、基础设施、到内容和应用。”
The centres will work alongside the support for at least three new “connected cities” in Europe — expected to be in London, Madrid and Berlin — which form part of the group’s strategy to extend its influence more deeply across the continent.
这些中心将为欧洲至少3个新的“互联城市”（预计将是伦敦、马德里和柏林）提供支持，这是华为一项策略的部分，即更深入地拓展其在整个欧洲的影响力。
But Mr Peng says that European technology has been held back by a lack of scale. When Huawei launched its Honor smartphone range — an online only brand — it found that the only means to promote and sell devices was through US groups such as Amazon, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter.
但彭博表示，规模不足阻碍了欧洲技术的发展。当华为发布仅在线销售的“荣耀”(Honor)系列智能手机时，发现他们只能通过亚马逊(Amazon)、Facebook、Instagram和Twitter等美国公司来推广和销售。
“Europe has a lot of good companies but the environment is not good for them to scale up,” he says.
“欧洲有很多优秀的公司，但环境不利于它们扩大规模，”他说。
Nonetheless, he admits that Europe has been more welcoming to Huawei than other regions such as the US, where politicians have raised suspicions about its links to the Chinese state.
尽管如此，他也坦言欧洲比美国等其他地区更欢迎华为。美国的政治人士对华为与中国政府的关系提出了疑问。
“European countries are the most open to new things and challenges. Its open, honest, transparent to Huawei, which we like a lot.”
“欧洲国家对新事物和新挑战最为开放。欧洲对华为是开放、诚信和透明的，我们非常中意这一点。”
