David Cameron arrived at the Group of Seven summit in Japan on Wednesday and added his voice to pressure on China to abide by international law in disputes in the South China Sea.
戴维•卡梅伦(David Cameron)周三抵达日本出席七国集团(G7)峰会，他在南中国海纠纷问题上表态，加大了国际社会要求中国遵守国际法的压力。
The British prime minister is suspected by the US of toning down criticism of China as he tries to make the UK the “best partner in the west” to Beijing, setting up an awkward G7 session on Asian security issues on Thursday.
英国首相近来受到美国的怀疑，认为他淡化对中国的批评，以达到让英国成为北京方面“在西方的最佳合作伙伴”的目的。美方的这种猜忌给周四举行的有关亚洲安全问题的G7会议搭起一个尴尬的舞台。
But Mr Cameron made clear he backed other countries in the region in demanding that China respects a forthcoming ruling in The Hague over islands in waters disputed with the Philippines. “On the tribunal case, we believe it is in Britain’s interest to have a rule for the world that is based on adhering to the institutions and rules of that world — that suits us,” he said.
但卡梅伦明确表示，他支持亚太地区其他国家的立场，要求中国尊重海牙仲裁庭就中国与菲律宾争议海域的岛屿即将作出的裁决。“对于这起仲裁案，我们认为世界有一套规则是符合英国利益的，这套规则基于坚守世界的各项制度和规则——这合乎我们的需要，”他说。
“We want to encourage China to be part of that rules-based world. We want to encourage everyone to abide by these adjudications. I’m sure that will be something that will be discussed.”
“我们希望鼓励中国成为基于规则的世界的一部分。我们希望鼓励各方都遵守此类审裁。我肯定那是会上将要讨论的内容。”
China has not accepted the jurisdiction of The Hague tribunal. The west will then have to decide how to respond, putting strains on relations between Beijing and its western trading partners.
中国一直未接受海牙仲裁庭的管辖范围。这意味着西方将不得不决定如何应对，导致北京方面与西方贸易伙伴之间关系紧张。
Britain is far from alone in seeking to boost exports to, and inward investment from, China. Angela Merkel, German chancellor, and President François Hollande of France, who are attending the G7 summit, have also made big trade pushes.
英国绝不是唯一寻求促进对华出口，并从中国招揽投资的国家。同样出席G7峰会的德国总理安格拉•默克尔(Angela Merkel)和法国总统弗朗索瓦•奥朗德(François Hollande)也在促进对华经贸往来方面付出很大努力。
Officials in Washington have criticised the “constant accommodation” of China by Britain. Last week President Barack Obama lifted the American arms embargo on Vietnam, which is also in dispute with China, and has backed Japan on the issue.
美国官员曾指责英国对中国“不断迁就”。上周，美国总统巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)解除了美国对越南的武器禁运；越南也与中国存在领土争端，并在争端中支持日本。
Mr Cameron said the summit would discuss security issues, the fight against Isis, sanctions against Russia and antimicrobial resistance, but there will also be a focus on Britain’s EU referendum.
卡梅伦表示，此次峰会将讨论安全问题、打击“伊拉克和黎凡特伊斯兰国”(ISIS)的作战、对俄罗斯制裁，以及微生物抗药性，但也将聚焦英国即将举行的要不要留在欧盟的全民公投。
Although many of the G7 leaders have expressed backing for Britain staying in the EU, the possibility of a British exit and the pressure that might put on wider European unity remains a matter for concern in western capitals.
虽然多名G7领导人已表态支持英国留在欧盟，但英国退欧的可能性及其可能给整个欧洲团结带来的压力，仍是西方各国首都担忧的一件事。
The prime minister played down suggestions of a new G7 statement on the referendum, although at previous summits he has never missed an opportunity to win support from fellow world leaders for his fight to keep Britain in the EU.
英国首相淡化了G7就英国的公投发表一份新的声明的推测，尽管在以往的峰会上，他从不放过一个机会争取其他世界领导人支持他让英国留在欧盟的努力。
