David Cameron is confident he can reach a deal on the UK’s terms of membership in the EU next month, paving the way for a vote this summer on whether Britain will sever its four-decade relationship with the bloc.
戴维愠蕓伦(David Cameron)相信自己可以在下月就英国的欧盟成员资格达成协议，从而为今年夏天举行有关英国要不要断绝与该联盟40年关系的公投铺平道路。
The prime minister said there was a “massive prize for Britain” if it could renegotiate membership, adding that he felt the “best answer” was for the UK to remain part of a reformed EU.
英国首相表示，如果英国能重新谈判成员资格，那将是“英国获得的巨大利好”。他还表示自己觉得对于英国来说，“最佳答案”是留在改革后的欧盟里。
His comments came as a survey revealed that the majority of leaders at Britain’s biggest companies thought leaving Europe would not damage their prospects, suggesting the impact of a Brexit could be less negative for business than In campaigners had suggested.
卡梅伦发表这一言论时，一项调查显示英国大公司的大多数高管认为离开欧盟不会损害企业前景，似乎表明脱欧对商业的影响可能没有赞成留在欧盟的活动人士所说的那么消极。
While most of the British business leaders interviewed in annual research by Ipsos Mori in conjunction with the FT said walking away from the bloc would be negative for the UK economy as a whole, 61 per cent were confident their individual operations would not suffer.
在伊普索莫利(Ipsos Mori)与英国《金融时报》联手进行的年度研究中，大多数受访的英国商界领袖都表示，离开欧盟对英国经济整体的影响是负面的，但61%的人相信其公司运营不会受到影响。
Many of the chairmen, chief executives and other senior managers from more than 100 big British companies also said they wanted to unravel the close political ties between the UK and Europe and return to membership of a pure trading bloc.
100多家英国大型企业中的多名董事长、首席执行官及其他高管还表示，他们希望解开英国与欧洲之间的密切政治联系，回归单纯的贸易集团成员资格。
Although more than half of the leaders said the greatest attraction of EU membership was recruiting staff from Europe without requiring visas, three-quarters said Brexit would not affect their company’s ability to attract overseas talent.
虽然超半数的商界领袖称，欧盟成员国身份最大的吸引力在于从欧洲招聘员工不需要签证，但其中四分之三的人表示，英国退出欧盟不会影响所在公司吸引海外人才的能力。
Asked by the BBC whether he could conclude a deal at the European Council meeting in Brussels next month, opening up the possibility of a summer vote, Mr Cameron said: “I would like to see a deal in February and a referendum that will follow.”
在被BBC问及能否在下月布鲁塞尔召开的欧盟理事会会议上达成协议、为今夏举行投票铺路时，卡梅伦说：“我希望在2月达成交易，全民公投将随后进行。”
Public opinion polls still suggest British voters will opt to remain in the EU, with the average of the six latest polls revealing that 55 per cent would vote to stay in the bloc, according to the poll of polls on the What UK Thinks website.
民意调查仍显示，英国选民将选择留在欧盟。根据What UK Thinks网站对民意调查的统计，最新6次民调的平均结果显示，55%的人将投票支持留在欧盟。
