"Avatar" is set to receive four sequels, according to creator James Cameron.
导演詹姆斯·卡梅隆透露，《阿凡达》将拍摄四部续集。
The "Titanic" director announced the expansion of the franchise at CinemaCon. He confirmed his plans to release four new "Avatar" movies over the course of the next seven years with each installment intended to debut around Christmas of 2018, 2020, 2022 and 2023.
电影《泰坦尼克号》导演卡梅隆近日在电影产业集会CinemaCon上宣布了这一庞大的续集拍摄计划。他确认了将在未来七年拍摄四部《阿凡达》续集的计划，上映的时间依次为2018年、2020年、2022年和2023年的圣诞节。
"We're making four epic ('Avatar') films that stand alone but together form a saga. These movies were designed to be seen in theaters first," he told the audience.
他告诉观众：“我们将拍摄四部史诗级的阿凡达续集影片，每部故事独立，但又能组成一个完整的故事。影片将首先在影院放映。”
"I've been working with the top four screenwriters and designers in the world to design the world of 'Avatar' going forward," he continued. "The environments, new cultures—whatever it takes to bring it to life."
他继续说道，“我一直在与世界顶尖的四位编剧和设计师合作，构思下一步的阿凡达世界。不管需要什么样的环境、新的文化，我们都要不计一切代价去实现。”
Zoe Saldana most likely had a similar reaction after learning she'll be speaking Na'vi into her 40s.
（第一部的女主角）佐伊·索尔达娜在得知到了40多岁还得讲纳美语时，也许会同样惊讶。
Cameron originally intended to only make two sequels to the 2009 fantasy epic, which garnered immense critical and commercial acclaim upon its release, as well as pioneering new technologies in filmmaking.
卡梅隆最初计划给这部2009年上映的影片拍摄两部续集。《阿凡达》一片最初上映时获得了评论界和商业界的广泛称赞，引领了电影制作新技术。
"There is too much story and visionary ideas for two sequels," Cameron said, via The Wall Street Journal. "So we talked to Fox and expanded it to three sequels. Now that the script work is finishing up, it's not three. It looks like four. So after talking it through with our partners at Fox and giving it a lot of thought, we decided to embark on a truly massive cinematic project."
卡梅隆接受《华尔街日报》采访时说，“用两部续集来展示这么多情节和创意实在不够用。因此我们和福克斯公司谈了谈，扩大到三部。现在剧本就要完成了，不是三部了，看上去要到四部。所以我们与福克斯的合作伙伴进一步洽谈，又有了不少新创意，于是决心来一次大工程。”
"Our jobs as filmmakers is to keep making films onscreen," he explained at CinemaCon. "We'll continue to make this industry the greatest show on Earth. My producer Jon Landau and I are committed to the theater experience. Despite what the folks at the Screening Room say, I think movies need to be offered in the theater on opening day. So boom."
他在CinemaCon上解释说：“作为制片人，我们的工作是坚持做电影。我们将继续把电影做成地球上最好的艺术形式。我和制片人乔恩·兰多将致力于影院体验。不管放映室的人说什么，我都认为电影应该在影院首映。这样电影产业才能繁荣。”
