 Brazil was thrown into a constitutional crisis yesterday after a judge blocked President Dilma Rousseff’s appointment of predecessor Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva to her cabinet, prompting clashes in Congress and on the streets.
 巴西昨日陷入宪法危机，一名法官阻止巴西总统迪尔玛•罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)任命其前任路易斯•伊纳西奥•卢拉•达席尔瓦(Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva)进入她的内阁，在国会和巴西街头都引发了冲突。
 As Mr Lula da Silva’s swearing-in ceremony drew to a close, a federal judge issued an injunction suspending the appointment on grounds it prevented “the free exercise of justice” in corruption investigations that include allegations against the former president.
 就在卢拉•达席尔瓦的就职仪式接近尾声时，巴西一名联邦法官签发禁令暂停任命，理由是该任命阻碍了反腐调查——包括对这位前总统的指控——的“司法自由”。
 Opposition politicians hailed the decision as a triumph for Brazilian democracy, while the government vowed to appeal, lambasting the order as part of a “coup” by the country’s elite, reminiscent of the period of military rule. Brazilian assets rallied as investors bet on the government’s collapse.
 反对派政治人士称赞这一判决是巴西民主体制的胜利，而巴西政府发誓要上诉，痛斥该法令是巴西精英阶层发动的“政变”，让人想起军事统治时期。由于投资者押注巴西政府崩溃，巴西资产价格出现涨势。
 “Since the end of the dictatorship and the transition to democracy over recent years, this is our most dramatic political moment — we have no idea what tomorrow will even look like,” said Gabriel Petrus, analyst at consultancy Barral M Jorge Associates in Brasília. “Dilma’s strategy of defence is attack and this risks creating social unrest and more violent demonstrations on the streets.”
 咨询公司Barral M Jorge Associates驻巴西分析师加布里埃尔•佩特鲁斯(Gabriel Petrus)表示：“自从巴西结束独裁统治，近年向民主体制转型后，眼下是最戏剧化的政治时刻。我们甚至不知道明天会是何种局面。迪尔玛的战略是以攻为守，这有可能在巴西街头制造社会动荡和更多暴力示威。”
 Mass protests swept the country on Wednesday night after a court released incendiary recordings of Mr Lula da Silva’s private conversations that fuelled accusations he had been appointed as minister only to shield him from immediate arrest.
 周三晚间巴西全国爆发大规模抗议活动。此前法庭公布了卢拉•达席尔瓦的私下谈话录音，这些高度敏感的录音助燃了对他的指责，即他被任命为部长只是为了保护他免遭立即逮捕。
 Military police fired tear gas at protesters outside the presidential palace following clashes with Workers’ party supporters, while demonstrators vandalised union and government buildings yesterday.
 抗议者在总统府外与工人党支持者发生冲突，宪兵向抗议人群发射了催泪瓦斯。同时示威者昨日毁坏了工会和政府大楼。
