 India’s capital city said it was banning “surge pricing” by US-based taxi-hailing app Uber and its local rival Ola, highlighting the challenges the companies still face in what they see as a vast, potentially lucrative market.
 印度首都德里表示，将禁止总部位于美国的叫车应用优步(Uber)及本土竞争对手Ola实行“高峰期定价”。此举凸显出在这个被这些企业视为巨大且潜在有利可图的市场，它们依然面临着种种挑战。
 Surge pricing is a computer-driven, dynamic pricing system — similar to the one used by airlines — that raises fares when demand for rides outstrips the supply of available taxis.
 高峰期定价是一种由电脑实施的动态定价体系——与航空公司的定价体系类似，这种定价体系会在搭乘需求超过等待载客的出租车的供应量时提高车费。
 In India, that means cab fares may rise six to seven times higher than the base fare at peak periods. The taxi aggregating companies say the higher fares help balance demand and supply.
 在印度，这种机制意味着高峰期的车费可能会升至基础车费的六到七倍。这几家调度出租车的企业表示，较高的车费有助于平衡需求与供给。
 But Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi’s chief minister, called surge pricing “daylight robbery” in a series of tweets and said it would not be permitted in the Indian capital, where both Ola and Uber have developed large fleets.
 然而，德里首席部长阿尔温德•凯杰里瓦尔(Arvind Kejriwal)在Twitter上发布一系列消息称，高峰期定价是“光天化日下的抢劫”，并表示印度首都不会允许这种做法。目前，Ola和优步在德里都发展了大规模车队。
 “Some taxis are saying they will not provide a cab if they are not allowed to loot,” Mr Kejriwal said. “This is open blackmailing and the government will not let that happen.”
 凯杰里瓦尔表示：“有些出租车公司表示，如果不允许他们赚这个外快，他们就不会出车。这是公开勒索，政府不会允许这种事情发生。”
 Mr Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi (Common Man) party government is considering setting a “price band” that places limits on what taxi-hailing apps may charge. Indian authorities also set the fares of standard taxis and autorickshaws, keeping a lid on prices, while simultaneously restricting the number of taxi and rickshaw licences to keep supply tight.
 凯杰里瓦尔的平民党(Aam Aadmi party)政府正在考虑制定“价格区间”，对叫车应用的收费加以限制。印度当局也为标准的出租车和三轮摩托制定了收费标准，确保车费有一定上限。同时，印度当局还严格限制出租车和三轮摩托的牌照，以确保供应处于紧张状态。
 Surge pricing by taxi aggregators — who have put tens of thousands of private taxis on the streets — aggravated Mr Kejriwal last week, as New Delhi began the second phase of its anti-air pollution “odd-even” scheme. The scheme restricts the use of private cars in the city to every other day, depending on their licence plate number.
 在新德里开始实施对抗空气污染的“单双号”计划第二阶段之际，出租车召集公司（这些公司向大街小巷投放数万辆私人出租车）的高峰期定价在上周惹恼了凯杰里瓦尔。“单双号”计划限制私家车在德里只能依照牌照的号码隔天使用。
 As demand for Uber and Ola taxis soared as a result, so did complaints about surge pricing. On Monday, Mr Kejriwal threatened “strict action”, including cancelling the permits and impounding vehicles charging more than government-prescribed rates.
 由于“单双号”计划导致对优步和Ola出租车需求激增，人们对高峰期定价的投诉也急剧增加。本周一，凯杰里瓦尔威胁要“采取严厉措施”，其中包括撤销许可证，以及没收收费高于政府规定价格的车辆。
 After his warning both companies said they were suspending surge pricing during the “odd-even” pilot programme, due to end on April 30. Delhi commuters then appealed to Mr Kejriwal to ban surge pricing in the capital permanently, which he says he will do.
 在凯杰里瓦尔提出警告之后，两家企业均表示，在“单双号”计划试行期间暂停实施高峰期定价，试行阶段定于4月30日结束。在两家企业表态之后，德里的通勤者呼吁凯杰里瓦尔永久禁止在该市实施高峰期定价，后者也表示将会这么做。
 “We are not against taxi aggregators. We fully support them. But they will have to follow law,” the chief minister tweeted.
 这位首席部长在Twitter上发消息称：“我们不是反对出租车召集公司。我们完全支持它们。不过它们必须遵守法律。”
