 Jakarta has protested to Beijing over “interference” in its sovereign affairs after a Chinese coast guard vessel sought to free a fishing boat and its crew that was suspected of operating within Indonesia’s exclusive economic zone in the South China Sea.
 雅加达已向北京抗议中国“干涉”印尼的主权事务，此前一艘中国海警船寻求释放一艘涉嫌在南中国海印尼专属经济区作业的渔船及其船员。
 Susi Pudjiastuti, Indonesia’s minister of maritime affairs and fisheries, said yesterday that eight crew of the Chinese vessel had been detained and the government had summoned representatives from the Chinese embassy to discuss the alleged infringement.
 印尼海洋渔业部长苏西•普吉亚司杜蒂(Susi Pudjiastuti)昨日表示，中国渔船的8名船员已被拘留，政府已经召见中国大使馆代表讨论这起涉嫌侵权主权的事件。
 Ms Pudjiastuti said there had been a chase in which a Chinese patrol boat had collided with the fishing vessel in an attempt to release it, putting passengers and Indonesian officers at risk.
 普吉亚司杜蒂表示，事件中曾发生追逐，其间一艘中国海警船撞击渔船，试图将其释放，此举给乘客和印尼官员带来人身危险。
 “This is a very, very serious incident,” she said. “We consider this an interference in the law enforcement process of Indonesia, which is fighting illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.”
 “这是一起非常、非常严重的事件，”她说，“我们认为这是对印尼执法过程的干涉，我国正在打击非法、未经报告和不受监管的捕捞。”
 According to Ms Pudjiastuti, China has claimed the area is a “traditional fishing ground”.
 据普吉亚司杜蒂介绍，中国宣称该海域是一个“传统渔场”。
 The incident comes amid heightened tensions in the South China Sea as Beijing ramps up its military presence in the resource-rich waters. Jakarta has long tried to position itself as a neutral broker between China and the Southeast Asian nations with which Beijing has direct disputes over maritime sovereignty, including Malaysia and the Philippines.
 这起事件发生之际，随着北京方面在这片资源丰富的海域加强军事存在，南中国海处于高度紧张状态。雅加达长期试图将自己定位为中国和那些与北京存在直接海洋主权争端的东南亚国家（包括马来西亚和菲律宾）之间中立的中间人。
 The “nine-dash line”, which outlines Beijing’s claim to almost all of the South China Sea, intersects with Indonesia’s 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the Natuna islands, although it does not include the islands.
 把几乎整个南中国海划入中国版图的所谓“九段线”，与印尼在纳土纳群岛(Natuna islands)周围的200海里专属经济区有部分交集，尽管“九段线”并未将该群岛本身划入。
 However, President Joko Widodo’s government has taken a firmer stance in protecting the archipelago’s sovereignty and sought to revive Indonesia’s reputation as a powerful maritime nation.
 然而，印尼总统佐科•维多多(Joko Widodo)的政府对于捍卫该群岛的主权采取更为坚定的立场，并试图重振印尼作为一个强大海洋国家的声誉。
 Security analysts have questioned the presence of the Chinese coast guard in Indonesia’s economic zone, more than 1,300km from the Chinese coast. The Indonesian navy said yesterday that it would double the size of its patrol operations in the Natuna Sea.
 安全分析人士质疑中国海警为何出现在距离中国海岸1300多公里之遥的印尼专属经济区。印尼海军昨日表示，将把其在纳土纳海的巡逻规模增加一倍。
 “The Indonesian exclusive economic zone is absolutely within Indonesia’s territory and interests,” Ms Pudjiastuti said. “So the Chinese government’s claim is baseless and incorrect.”
 “印尼专属经济区绝对处在印尼的领土和利益范围内，”普吉亚司杜蒂表示，“因此中国政府的说法是毫无根据和不正确的。”
 Analysts say Jakarta’s assertiveness is being led by Ms Pudjiastuti. The minister has ordered the sinking of more than 100 illegal fishing boats since she took office last year to try to protect local industry. Last week Jakarta blew up the Viking, a stateless fishing boat that was one of Interpol’s most wanted vessels.
 分析人士称，雅加达的强硬姿态正由普吉亚司杜蒂领导。这位部长自去年上任以来已下令炸沉100多艘非法渔船，以保护本土渔业。上周，雅加达方面炸沉了无国籍渔船“维京号”(FV Viking)，该船曾是国际刑警组织(Interpol)头号通缉船只之一。
 “Susi [Pudjiastuti] has been looking for an opportunity to push China on this question from the beginning,” said Aaron Connelly, a researcher at Australian think-tank the Lowy Institute.
 “普吉亚司杜蒂从一开始就在寻找契机，在这个问题上对中国施压，”澳大利亚智库——罗伊研究所(Lowy Institute)研究员阿龙•康奈利(Aaron Connelly)表示。
