India’s Supreme Court has banned new luxury diesel vehicles in Delhi and doubled a recently imposed “green tax” on trucks coming into the city — the latest in a series of tough measures to curb pollution.
印度最高法院已禁止豪华柴油车在德里上牌，并将近期对驶入德里的卡车开征的“环保税”提高一倍。这是印度一连串遏制污染的强硬措施中的最新一例。
The ban on the registration of new diesel vehicles with engines of two litres or more will initially be in force only until March 31. But it is a warning sign to India’s car industry of the growing backlash against diesels — especially larger, heavy sport utility vehicles popular among the wealthy.
这项禁止发动机排量在2升及以上的柴油车上牌的禁令，将只试行至明年3月31日。尽管如此，它对印度汽车业来说还是一个警告，它提醒印度汽车业注意：柴油车正受到越来越大的反对，尤其是受富裕阶层欢迎的车体较大较重的运动型多用途车(SUV)。
According to the Society of Indian Automotive Manufactures, 37 per cent of all passenger cars sold in India during the financial year to March 2015 were diesel variants, and the share of diesels in total car sales has been rising in recent months.
根据印度汽车制造商协会(Society of Indian Auto Manufacturers)的数据，截至2015年3月的上一财年里，印度市场上售出的所有乘用车中柴油车占37%，而且近几个月里柴油车在汽车总体销量中的占比还在不断上升。
However, about 90 per cent of the SUVs and other utility vehicles sold last year, and many German-made luxury cars, are fuelled by diesel, which is substantially cheaper than petrol.
此外，去年售出的SUV及其他类型多用途车有90%左右为柴油车，很多德国造的豪车也是如此。柴油要比汽油便宜不少。
“The rich can’t be allowed to buy luxury diesel cars and SUVs and pollute the air with adverse consequences on the health of the rest of the population,” the court said on Tuesday, a day ahead of its formal ruling.
印度最高法院在正式颁布禁令的前一天表示：“不能允许富人购买豪华柴油车和SUV来污染空气，而对其他民众的健康造成不良影响。”
The court also doubled a “green tax” on trucks that it imposed last month in a bid to deter highly polluting commercial vehicles from driving through the capital unless they had business there. It has also banned trucks more than 10 years old from entering the city.
印度最高法院还将对卡车开征的“环保税”提高了一倍。该税是从上月开始征收的，目的是劝阻高污染的商用车辆没事办就别从首都经过。印度最高法院还禁止车龄超过10年的卡车驶入德里。
Environmental activists hailed the court decision as a much-needed move to put the brakes on the deterioration of Delhi’s air quality.
印度最高法院这一决定受到环保人士的欢迎，他们称这是一项极为必要的、阻止德里空气质量恶化的举措。
