NEW DELHI — Traffic was flowing smoothly Monday morning on Outer Ring Road in South Delhi, usually jammed at that hour by subway construction and cars. An upscale market was dotted with free parking spaces. Monkeys ambled down one street in the colonial heart of the capital, easily dodging the few cars.
新德里——周一上午，在通常都会因地铁施工和车流而发生拥堵的时间段里，南德里外环路上交通顺畅。一家高端市场里分布着不少免费停车位。在散发着殖民气息的首都中心区域的一条街上，猴子在漫步，轻而易举就避开了稀稀落落的车辆。
It was the fourth day of traffic restrictions imposed by the government of the metropolitan Delhi region, part of a series of measures meant to reduce pollution. The two-week experiment, which began on Friday, has been derided in many quarters of Delhi, where having a car and driver is a status symbol, and rush hour is usually a clamor of horn blowing, triple parking and bumper-to-bumper traffic.
这是德里大都会区政府实行交通管制的第四天，限行是一系列意在减少污染措施的一部分。为期两周的尝试是从上周五开始的。在德里的很多地方，这件事遭到了嘲笑。在这里，有车有司机是一种地位的象征，高峰时段通常是一幅鸣笛声四起、停车混乱、保险杠贴着保险杠的景象。
Under the policy, private cars are allowed on the streets on alternate days depending on their final license plate numbers, with Sundays exempt. It calls for penalties of around $30 for scofflaws, and its success is to be gauged by daily pollution measurements. In 2014, a World Health Organization study ranked New Delhi’s air quality the worst of nearly 1,600 cities surveyed.
根据相关政策，除周日外，私家车只能根据车牌最后一位数字的单双号隔天上路。该政策要求对违反者处以大约30美元的罚款。成功与否有待每天的污染数据来衡量。在世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)2014年的一项研究中，新德里的空气质量在近1600座接受调查的城市中垫底。
In a release issued last week, the Delhi government said that the traffic police and the divisional commissioner would deploy teams to 120 traffic points and that the Transport Department would check for overcharging and “misbehavior” by auto rickshaw drivers.
在上周发布的一份声明中，德里政府称交警和分区长官将向120个交通要塞部署工作人员，交通部会检查超载现象和嘟嘟车的“不当行为”。
More than 1,200 drivers were caught violating the policy on Monday, according to the Press Trust of India, a news agency.
据新闻机构印度报业托拉斯(Press Trust of India)报道，周一当天，有1200多名司机被发现违规。
Skeptics questioned how the measure would be enforced. The Delhi regional government is run by the Aam Aadmi Party, and the police come under the federal government and its Bharatiya Janata Party. Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi chief minister, has long clashed with the Delhi police.
持怀疑态度的人士质疑相关措施如何执行。德里地区由凡人党(Aam Aadmi Party)执政，而警察机构则由联邦政府及领导该政府的人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)管理。德里首席部长阿尔温德·凯杰里沃(Arvind Kejriwal)和德里警方长期不和。
But perhaps the most entrenched barrier is a Delhi elite used to having drivers standing by at all times. Some of those citizens, members of the capital’s upper classes, are up in arms about the change.
不过，最大的障碍或许是习惯了随时都有司机待命的德里精英阶层。他们中的部分人属于首都的上层阶级。对这一变化，他们竭力反对。
Promila Bij, 57, a South Delhi resident, swept into a taxi on Monday morning — the third she had called after two other companies said they had no cars. She arrived at work in West Delhi more than an hour late, she said later in a telephone interview, while her three cars and two drivers were sitting idle at home: All three have license plates ending in odd numbers, which were barred from the road on Monday. When she reached her office, where she works for a nongovernmental organization, she canceled meetings that regularly take her to the satellite city of Gurgaon and to central Delhi.
今年57岁的普罗米拉·比杰(Promila Bij)住在南城。周一早上，她钻进了一辆出租车。这是她叫的第三辆车，此前的两家公司均表示没车了。后来接受电话采访时，她说自己赶到西城上班的地方时晚了一个多小时，而她的三辆车和两个司机却闲在家里：她这几辆车的车牌最后一位都是单数，周一均不能上路。她在一家非政府组织任职，到办公室后取消了会议。她的会议往往会在卫星城古尔冈及城中心举行。
“I cannot come because I don’t have my driver or car,” she said. “If you want to call me snooty, all right, I am, because that is my lifestyle and that’s how I work.”
“我来不了，因为没车没司机，”她说。“如果想说我自以为高人一等也没关系，我就是这样，因为这就是我的生活方式和工作方式。”
“You can’t say, ‘Change your lifestyle’ at the snap of a finger,” she added.
“你不能打个响指就说，‘改变你的生活方式，’”她说。
To accommodate the carless, the government said it would provide 3,000 extra buses. It took out newspaper advertisements, and the chief minister delivered a folksy radio spot on the measure.
为了满足无法开车的人的需求，政府表示会增加3000辆公交车。此事在报纸上登了广告，首席部长还在广播上安排了一档亲民栏目。
“We are truly overwhelmed by the response we have received so far,” Mr. Kejriwal told reporters outside his home on Friday. “Delhi will show the way to the rest of the country.”
“我们真的被迄今为止收到的反馈淹没了，”凯杰里沃周五在自家房子外面对记者表示。“德里会给全国其他地方指明方向。”
But it is not clear that Delhi’s experiment will actually reduce pollution, especially as the rules are riddled with exemptions.
然而，德里的尝试会不会真的减少污染还是个未知数，特别是在相关规定有很多例外的情况下。
Women are allowed to drive any car any time of day, seen as a nod to safety in a city where women face dangers on public transit. Two-wheelers — motorcycles and scooters, which experts say made up the majority of the nearly nine million vehicles on the road as of March in Delhi — are also exempt. Cars using compressed natural gas, and those belonging to senior government officials and judges, can be on the roads any day as well.
女性在一天里的任何时段都可以开任何号码的车。在这座女性在公共交通工具上面临危险的城市，这被视作一种安全保障。两轮的摩托车和踏板车也是例外。专家称，截至3月，该市路面上有近900万辆机动车，而两轮车占了大部分。使用压缩天然气的车，以及政府高官和法官的车也可以随时上路。
Even as the government declared that the policy resulted in lower levels of particulate matter in the air on Friday compared with the same day last year, environmental experts cautioned that the effect would be limited. At noon on Monday, the air quality index measured by the United States Embassy reached 445, well into the “hazardous” level.
就在政府声称限行政策使周五当天空气中的颗粒物水平同比实现下降时，环境问题专家告诫，实际效果可能很有限。周一中午，美国大使馆测得的空气质量指数为445，完全属于“有害”水平。
Some Delhi residents approved of the move. Amit Bhandari, a graphic designer, waited patiently for the Metro in a South Delhi station. He began taking the Metro last week, in anticipation of the traffic changes, and said he thought that they should continue.
一些德里居民同意限行举措。平面设计师阿米特·班达里(Amit Bhandari)在南城的一座地铁站耐心地等车。料到交通会出现变化后，他从上周开始坐地铁。他说自己认为这些措施应该坚持下去。
“We Delhi-ites are into showoff,” he said. “Bigger cars mean you are in a more elite class. That culture needs to go.”
“我们德里人喜欢炫耀，”他说。“车越大，说明越是精英。这种文化应该消失。”
