It’s a snowy, gloomy day, and Sherlock Holmes, dressed in his iconic Inverness cape and deerstalker cap, is on his way home to Baker Street.
阴冷的天空飘着大雪，夏洛克輠尔摩斯身披他标志性斗篷，头戴猎鹿帽，正走在回贝克街的路上。
A new, ghostly mystery is on the super-sleuth’s mind. And that’s not the only thing that’s different about the latest episode of Sherlock.
这位超级侦探的脑子里一直回荡着最近一起可怕的谜案。不过这可不是最新福尔摩斯电影的唯一亮点。
Telegrams have replaced e-mails, and Holmes now finds himself in a horse-drawn carriage instead of a cab. The hit BBC TV series, which usually takes place in the present day, has transported its characters back to Victorian London, where author Arthur Conan Doyle’s classic tales were set.
电报取代电邮，福尔摩斯发现自己竟坐在马车里，计程车去哪了？这部由英国广播公司出品的热门剧集将背景设定在现代，现在却将主人公穿越到了维多利亚时期的伦敦，那正是原著作者柯南匠尔给小说设定的年代。
The latest Sherlock special, The Abominable Bride, hit Chinese cinemas on Jan 4, and it’s a loving homage to Doyle’s original vision.
Many of Doyle’s stories are spine-tinglers, full of fright and suspense. Yet, confined by its 21st century backdrop, the Sherlock series hasn’t been able to fully present some of Doyle’s gothic stories. But this time-traveling Sherlock special allows the production team to present a kind of story that was prevalent in Doyle’s era.
道尔的小说充满了惊悚和悬疑，让人背脊发凉。但是受到21世纪的年代限制，《神探夏洛克》剧集无法完全呈现道尔原著中的哥特风格。不过这次穿越版《神探夏洛克特别篇》给了创作团队重现道尔时代流行故事的机会。
“If you want to do a ghost story, you’ve got to go Victorian,” Sherlock show-runner Steven Moffat told Vanity Fair magazine. “There’s a lot of fog.”
“如果你想讲鬼故事，那就得去维多利亚时代，”《神探夏洛克》制片人史蒂芬莫法特告诉《名利场》杂志。“那时（伦敦）大雾朦胧。”
To adapt to Sherlock’s new Victorian setting, the show’s protagonists have made a few personality adjustments.
为了配合《神探夏洛克》的维多利亚时期剧设，主人公的性格也要相应做出调整。
Actor Benedict Cumberbatch’s Sherlock Holmes becomes “a little more polished” in his role as a Victorian gentleman. Meanwhile, Holmes’ sidekick John Watson, played by Martin Freeman, is “more uptight”, said Moffat.
莫法特透露，演员本尼迪克特康伯巴奇饰演的夏洛克輠尔摩斯变得“更加优雅”，以符合他维多利亚时期绅士的人设。同时，福尔摩斯的助手约翰丠生（马丁弗里曼饰）则会变得“更加焦躁”。
What’s remarkable about The Abominable Bride is the freedom with which it explores modern-day themes, in spite of its Victorian backdrop.
虽然故事设定在维多利亚时期，《可恶的新娘》最值得称道的是它探讨的现代主题下的自由。
Spoiler alert here! The ghostly bride turns out to be a group of betrayed women who attempt to punish their abusive male lovers and defend their rights. In other words, the bride is the idea of feminism, and her appearance coincides with the birth of the suffragettes in Victorian England.
注意，前方剧透！幽灵新娘其实只是一群被男人抛弃的妇女，她们要惩罚背叛她们的男人，维护自己的权利。换句话说，新娘就是女权主义的化身，她的出现同维多利亚时期英格兰兴起的妇女参政论不谋而合。
And there’s an additional twist in the story’s plot. The show’s time travel is actually a hallucination, brought on when Holmes has a drug overdose.
电影版还添加了一些反转的剧情。故事中的穿越其实只是福尔摩斯过量服用药物后致幻反应。
Despite all the acclaim the show has received, some viewers have complained about the special episode’s confusing, time-jumping plot. But the key elements in Sherlock stay the same.
尽管该片受到了不少赞誉，还是有不少影迷抱怨特别篇剧情混乱、时间线索不连贯。不过还好，《神探夏洛克》的精髓还在。
Sherlock and Watson’ s brilliant detective work doesn’t change. And more importantly, the duo’s fast-talking friendship remains intact.
卷福和华生绝妙的推理还在。更重要的是这对好基友打嘴仗式的友谊依旧坚固。
“You’re Sherlock Holmes, wear the damn hat,” Watson quips, shoving the deerstalker in Sherlock’s face. It’s a familiar line, delivered in an unfamiliar setting.
华生把猎鹿帽扔在卷福脸上，讥笑他：“你是带着难看帽子的夏洛克輠尔摩斯。”完全不同的背景下是熟悉的台词。
