The Secret Service said it would investigate Donald J. Trump’s longtime butler over Facebook posts laced with vulgarities and epithets calling for President Obama to be killed.
美国特勤局(Secret Service)表示，该机构将对一位为唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)长年服务的管家展开调查。后者此前在Facebook上发表了多篇包含粗俗言语和称谓的帖子，呼吁处死奥巴马总统。
The racially tinged posts by the butler, Anthony Senecal, were unearthed by Mother Jones on Thursday, and referred to Mr. Obama as a “Kenyan fraud” who should be hanged for treason.
《琼斯母亲》(Mother Jones)杂志发现了管家安东尼·塞内卡尔(Anthony Senecal)这些含有种族主义色彩的帖子，并在周四进行了报道。塞内卡尔在帖子里称奥巴马是个“肯尼亚骗子”，应该因叛国罪被绞死。
“With the last breath I draw I will help rid this America of the scum infested in its government,” Mr. Senecal wrote last May, saying that the president should be dragged from the “white mosque” and hanged “from the portico — count me in !!!!!”
“哪怕就剩最后一口气，我也要帮助美国除掉这个寄生在政府内的败类，”去年5月，塞内卡尔曾这样写道。他还表示，应该把奥巴马从“白色清真寺”里拖出来，绞死“在门廊上——算我一个！！！！！”
In a statement Thursday, the Secret Service said it was “aware of this matter and will conduct the appropriate investigation.”
周四，特勤局发布了一份声明，表示该机构已“获知此事，并将展开相应的调查。”
Hope Hicks, a Trump campaign spokeswoman, said in an email about the posts by Mr. Senecal, “We totally and completely disavow the horrible statements made by him.” Mr. Senecal did not immediately respond to a telephone call and Facebook message seeking comment.
特朗普竞选团队的女发言人霍普·希克斯(Hope Hicks)在谈论塞内卡尔帖子的邮件中表示，“我们完完全全不知晓他所做的这些可怕声明。”塞内卡尔没有接听记者拨打的电话，也没有立即回应记者通过Facebook发出的置评请求。
The posts were revealed as Mr. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee for president, has come under scrutiny for his associations with, and support from figures such as the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke. On Tuesday, Mr. Trump’s campaign aides said a technical glitch had included William Johnson, a self-proclaimed white nationalist, on a list of California delegates they submitted to the Secretary of State’s office.
这些帖子的曝光，恰逢稳获共和党总统候选人提名资格的特朗普，因与前三K党(Ku Klux Klan)头目戴维·杜克(David Duke)等人物有关联且得到他们支持而受到密切关注之时。周二，特朗普的竞选助手表示，因为一项技术故障，自称为白人民族主义者的威廉·约翰逊(William Johnson)被列入了他们提交给国务院办公室的加州代表名单中。
Mr. Senecal had worked almost 30 years for Mr. Trump, and was the subject of a profile in The New York Times in March. He spoke of knowing Mr. Trump’s sleeping pattens, his culinary preferences and just the right ways to cheer him up when he was in a sour mood, once hiring a bugler to play “Hail to the Chief.”
塞内卡尔已经为特朗普工作了将近30年。今年3月，《纽约时报》曾做过一篇有关他的人物特写。采访中，他说起自己熟悉特朗普的睡眠模式和饮食上的偏好，也知道在特朗普情绪不好时如何让他高兴起来，比如他曾经雇了一位号手给特朗普演奏《向统帅致敬》(Hail to the Chief)。
When he tried to retire in 2009, Mr. Trump deemed him irreplaceable and kept him on as an unofficial historian at the Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, the article said. But in her statement, Ms. Hicks said, “Tony Senecal has not worked at Mar-a-Lago for years.”
当他在2009年表示想要退休时，特朗普认为无人能够替代他，因此将他留了下来，充当自己位于佛罗里达州的马阿拉歌庄园的非正式历史专家。但希克斯在声明中表示，“托尼·塞内卡尔已经多年不在马阿拉歌工作。”
Some of Mr. Senecal’s other Facebook posts aimed at Ferguson protesters and various public figures, including Hillary Clinton, the Democratic front-runner for president, whom he called “Killery Clinton”; Beyoncé; and the Republican National Committee, which has quarreled with Mr. Trump through the nomination process. The committee members should be hanged for treason, he wrote in March.
在塞内卡尔其他的Facebook帖子中，还有一些是针对弗格森事件中的抗议者和各种公众人物，包括最有可能获得民主党总统候选人提名的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)、碧昂斯(Beyoncé)，以及共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)，后者在整个提名过程中曾与特朗普发生争执。塞内卡尔在今年3月写道，该委员会所有成员都应该因叛国罪被绞死。他在提到希拉里·克林顿时称其为杀人的克林顿(Killery Clinton)。
Although some of the posts, which dated to 2015, were written publicly while others were visible only to friends, Mother Jones said that Mr. Senecal had confirmed that they were his words: “I wrote that. I believe that.”
这些帖子中最早的一些可以追溯到2015年，尽管其中有些是公开发布，但其他的都是只有朋友可见。《琼斯母亲》杂志表示，塞内卡尔已经承认这些帖子出自他之手：“我写了那些东西。我想是的。”
