美国与俄罗斯已同意2月27日起在叙利亚“停止敌对行动”，此举是为了遏制暴乱的不断升级，已经有数支外国势力卷入这场内战。
The ceasefire plan does not include Isis or al-Qaeda’s Syria branch, Jabhat al-Nusra, and leaves open the option for other groups to be excluded if they are deemed “terrorist” organisations by the UN Security Council.
此次停火计划不包括“伊拉克和黎凡特伊斯兰国”(ISIS)以及基地组织叙利亚分支“努斯拉阵线”(Jabhat al-Nusra)，其他组织如果被联合国安理会(UN Security Council)视为“恐怖分子”组织，也可以将之排除在协议外。
Moscow and Washington, who back rival sides in the conflict, called on other parties to declare their acceptance of the plan by midday, Damascus time, on Friday, February 26.
俄罗斯与美国政府在叙利亚冲突中分别支持对立两方，两国政府呼吁其他各方在2月26日，本周五大马士革时间中午以前宣布接受该计划。
According to the peace deal, Moscow, which backs Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian president, and Washington, which backs the rebels fighting to oust him, would set up a communication hotline and, potentially, a “working group” to ensure the plan’s implementation and the honouring by their sides of the ceasefire.
根据这一和平协议，支持叙利亚总统巴沙尔阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的莫斯科，与支持反政府武装的华盛顿将共同建立一个沟通热线，可能还会成立“工作组”，以确保停火协议的实施，以及停火双方执行该协议。
John Kerry, US secretary of state, called on all sides to accept the deal. “If implemented and adhered to, this cessation will not only lead to a decline in violence but also continue to expand the delivery of urgently needed humanitarian supplies to besieged areas and support a political transition to a government that is responsive to the desires of the Syrian people,” he said.
美国国务卿约翰克里(John Kerry)呼吁各方接受该协议，他表示：“如果协议获得切实执行及遵守，停火不但会令暴力事件减少，还可以继续扩大向被围困的地区提供急需的人道救援，并支持政治过渡到一个能够响应叙利亚人民愿望的政府。”
Vladimir Putin, Russian president, said it was essential that Russia and the US, as co-chairs of the International Support Group for Syria, were ready to effectively monitor implementation of the ceasefire by both the Syrian government and armed opposition groups.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔渠京(Vladimir Putin)表示，该协议对俄罗斯和美国都很关键。作为叙利亚国际支持小组(International Support Group for Syria)的联合主席，两国已准备好有效地监督叙利亚政府和反对派武装力量执行停火协议。
The agreement “could become an example for responsible joint action of the international community,” he said, in a statement.
普京在声明中表示，该协议“可能成为国际社会负责任的联合行动的示例”。
Late on Monday, the High Negotiations Council, which represents the opposition in peace talks, issued a statement indicating it had accepted the terms of the cessation of hostilities.
周一晚间，代表叙利亚反对派参加和平谈判的“谈判最高委员会”(High Negotiations Council)发声明表示接受停止敌对行动的条款。
Meanwhile, Mr Assad, called a parliamentary election for April 13, according to a statement issued by the presidency on Monday. Syria’s last parliamentary election was in 2012 and they are held every four years.
与此同时，叙利亚总统阿萨德在周一发表声明称将在4月13日举行议会选举。叙利亚每四年举行一次议会选举，上一次是在2012年。
A ceasefire is critical for Syria, whose war has killed about 300,000 people and displaced half the population. Russia and Iran have intervened military on behalf of Mr Assad while a US-led coalition has bombed Isis in the east. Most recently, Turkey has targeted Syrian Kurdish militants advancing near its border.
叙利亚急需一个停火协议，这场战争已致30万人死亡，一半国民流离失所。代表阿萨德的俄罗斯和伊朗已加以军事干预，而以美国为首的联军则在东部轰炸ISIS。最近，土耳其将向其边境附近推进的叙利亚库尔德武装锁定为目标。
However, plenty of scepticism surrounds the plan. This month, peace talks sponsored by Washington and Moscow collapsed as Assad forces launched an offensive under Russian air cover to capture rebel strongholds in the north, forcing tens of thousands of civilians to flee.
但是该停火计划受到了大量质疑。本月，由美俄两国政府发起的和平谈判未能成功，因为阿萨德部队在俄国空军的掩护下发动进攻，占领了反抗者在北部的据点，迫使数万平民逃离。
Moreover, the deal does not rule out air strikes, a clause that rebels fear will be used against them. It does not prevent outside powers providing military aid to the warring parties. Mr Assad said on Sunday he would accept a ceasefire as long as “terrorists” did not use it to improve their positions, specifically pointing to a halt in weapons supplies. Damascus defines all rebel groups fighting it as terrorists.
此外，该协议并不排除继续空袭，反政府武装担心这一条款将被用来针对他们。这份停火协议没有阻止外部力量向交战各方提供军事援助。阿萨德在周日表示，如果“恐怖分子”不利用停火协议获得更有利的位置，他才会接受停火，他特别指出要停止武器供应。叙利亚政府将所有反政府武装定义为恐怖分子。
It is unclear how Syria’s US-backed Kurdish militants, who have been carving out an autonomous region in the north, will react to the ceasefire plan. The deal calls for all parties to stop seizing territory but the Kurds have been taking land from rebel forces in Aleppo’s countryside on the grounds that the fighters were tied to Jabhat al-Nusra. ]
目前尚不清楚受美国支持的叙利亚库尔德武装会对停火协议作何反应，他们在北部已获得了一个自治区。该协议要求各方停止占领土地，但库尔德人一直在抢夺反政府武装在阿勒颇(Aleppo)农村地区的土地，理由是当地武装分子与努斯拉阵线有紧密联系。
Mr Kerry made no mention of Mr Assad’s fate or Russia’s increased air strikes in recent weeks. This is likely to anger opposition groups that are already at odds with the US after it pushed them to go to the failed negotiations in Geneva.
克里没有提到阿萨德的命运和最近几个星期俄罗斯空袭的增加。这很可能会惹怒反对派团体，由于美国迫使他们去日内瓦参加那场不成功的和谈，他们与美国已产生分歧。
“If there was trust this would be different but right now there is no trust — not in Russia and not even in the international community,” said Yasser al-Youssef, a political representative of the Nour al-Din al-Zinki brigades in Aleppo.
阿勒颇Nour al-Din al-Zinki反政府武装政治代表亚西尔优素福(Yasser al-Youssef)表示：“如果这里面有信任，结果将会不同，但现在这里面没有信任，俄罗斯没表现出信任，甚至连国际社会也没有表现出信任。”
“Before this deal, Russia said they were intervening to stop Isis and 90 per cent of the time it was us rebels or civilians who got hit,” Mr Youssef said.
The rebels have yet to decide on their position regarding the ceasefire, as does Mr Assad.
叙利亚反政府武装尚未决定是否接受这份停火协议，阿萨德方面也一样。
