 US newspapers including the New York Times, the Washington Post and the Wall Street Journal are raising the alarm over new ad-blocking software that promises to replace publishers’ advertisements with its own and pay readers in bitcoin to view them.
 包括《纽约时报》(New York Times)、《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)和《华尔街日报》(WSJ)在内的多家美国报纸，对一款新的、可以拦截广告的软件发出警告。这款软件承诺，它会把出版商们的广告替换成自己的广告，并会向观看自己广告的读者支付比特币。
 The ad-replacing plan comes from Brave, a web browser launched this year by Brendan Eich, the co-founder and former chief executive of Mozilla, the web browser. Brave is available on mobile phones and desktop computers and blocks ads and trackers. The company intends to introduce a feature that will replace the ads it strips out with spots from its own advertising network that it says are more protective of users’ privacy and take less time to load.
 这一广告替换计划来自布伦丹•艾希(Brendan Eich)今年推出的一款网页浏览器Brave。艾希是网页浏览器Mozilla的共同创始人和前首席执行官。Brave既有手机版也有桌面电脑版，它可拦截广告和跟踪器。该公司打算推出这样一种功能：把网页上原有的广告移除，代之以来自它自身广告网络的内容。该公司表示，它自己的这些广告可以更好地保护用户的隐私，加载时间也短一些。
 If users elect to see the new ads, they will receive a 15 per cent cut of gross ad revenue. Website publishers will receive 55 per cent, while Brave’s advertising partners and the company itself will each receive 15 per cent. Users can also choose to send their share of revenue to the websites they read.
 如果用户选择观看这些新广告，他们将会从总广告收入中分得15%。网站出版商将分得55%，而Brave的广告合作伙伴及该公司自己将各自分得15%。用户也可选择将分给自己的那部分广告收入送给他们浏览的那些网站。
 But the plan has fallen foul of publishers, who argue that Brave’s business model infringes their copyrights.
 不过，该计划却触怒了出版商们，后者声称Brave的商业模式侵犯了它们的版权。
 “[Brave’s] argument is, I will take $10 out of your wallet and give you $5 and aren’t you happy about that?” said David Chavern, president of the Newspaper Association of America, a non-profit trade group representing 2,000 newspapers in the US and Canada.
 美国报业协会(Newspaper Association of America)会长戴维•沙韦恩(David Chavern)表示：“（Brave的）逻辑是，我会从你钱包里拿出10美元来，然后再返还你5美元，难道你对此还不满意吗？”美国报业协会是一家非营利性行业组织，代表美国和加拿大的2000家报纸。
 Seventeen NAA members sent Mr Eich and Brave a cease and desist notice on Thursday.
 周四，该协会的17家会员向艾希和Brave发出了勒令停止通知函(cease and desist notice)。
 “Your plan to use our content to sell your advertising is indistinguishable from a plan to steal our content to publish on your own website,” they wrote.
 它们写道：“您计划使用我们的内容来销售您的广告，这无异于打算窃取我们的内容然后发布在您自己网站上。
 “Your apparent plan to permit your customers to make bitcoin ‘donations’ to us, and for you to donate to us some unspecified percentage of revenue you receive from the sale of your ads on our sites, cannot begin to compensate us for the loss of our ability to fund our work by displaying our own advertising. We expressly decline to participate in any way in Brave’s supposed business model.”
 “表面上，您计划允许您的客户向我们作出比特币形式的‘捐赠’，还计划将您嫁接在我们网站上的广告的销售收入中属于您的那份捐给我们一部分（具体比例不明）。但这一计划根本无法弥补我们损失的、靠展示我们自己的广告为我们的工作供资的能力。我们明确拒绝以任何方式参与Brave假想中的商业模式。”
 Brave said in a statement that the publishers’ letter was “filled with false assertions”, adding “the NAA has fundamentally misunderstood Brave. Brave is the solution, not the enemy.”
 Brave在一份声明中称，出版商们的函件“充满了错误的断言”，并表示“美国报业协会从根本上误解了Brave。Brave是解决方案，而不是敌人”。
 The company said: “We sympathise with publishers concerned about the damage that pure ad blockers do to their ability to pay their bills via advertising revenue. However, this problem long predates Brave. We categorically reject the claim that browsers perform ‘republication’, and we repeat that Brave has a sound and systematic plan to financially reward publishers. We aim to outperform the invasive third-party ads that we block, with our better, fewer, and privacy-preserving ads.”
 该公司表示：“出版商们对纯广告拦截软件给它们靠广告收入来付账单的能力造成的损失感到担忧，我们对此表示同情。但是，这个问题在Brave诞生之前很久就存在。我们坚决拒绝接受所谓浏览器进行了‘再出版’的说法，我们重申Brave拥有完善和系统的计划来给出版商们带来经济回报。我们的目标是，用我们更好、更少且保护隐私的广告，来超越我们拦截的那些侵入式的第三方广告。”
