 A year ago, British singer Zayn Malik announced on Facebook that he would be leaving the British boy band One Direction.
 一年前，英国歌手泽恩•马利克在自己的脸书主页上宣布，自己将退出英国男子组合单向乐队（小破团）。
 “I am leaving because I want to be a normal 22-year-old who is able to relax and have some private time out of the spotlight,” he wrote. But it turns out, h e is now more in the spotlight than ever.
 他写道：“我选择离开是因为我想过一个正常的22岁，可以放松下来，远离聚光灯，享有一些私人空间”。但结果恰恰相反，如今的他比以往任何时候都更引人关注。
 Newspaper headlines have chronicled his evolution from band member to pop music rebel. First there was the public spat with producer Naughty Boy, then his split with his British pop star fiancé Perrie Edwards. Now, he’s getting attention for his relationship with 20-year-old US model and reality TV star Gigi Hadid.
 报纸头条记录了他从乐队成员逐渐转变为流行音乐逆反者的全过程。他先是和知名制作人淘气男孩公开骂战，接着又与自己的未婚妻、英国流行歌手佩里•爱德华兹分道扬镳。现在，因为和20岁的美国模特、真人秀明星吉吉•哈迪德的恋情，美渣又成了大众关注的焦点。
 But what’s more impressive is that he was able to sign a solo deal with RCA Records. Compared to his music career as a boy band member, Malik has achieved just as much – if not more– success as a solo singer. He released his debut album, Mind of Mine, on March 25. It sold over 9,000 copies in one day, outselling Adele by almost 3-1, reported Daily Star. Though Malik’s sales are expected to slow as the week goes on, while Adele’s daily numbers are holding steady, that’s still a big deal.
 但最引人关注的是美渣能够和RCA唱片公司单独签约了。同以前作为男子组合成员之一的音乐生涯相比，现在的他转型成了的独唱歌手，而且甚至比组合时期更成功。3月25日，美渣发布了自己的首张个人专辑《我的心灵》。据英国《每日星报》报道，新专辑发布一天（实体）销量就突破了9000张，约为阿黛尔的专辑首日销量的三倍。尽管有人预测美渣专辑的销量会后劲不足，而阿黛尔的专辑日销量则一直居高不下，不过这个成绩依旧十分可观。
 The media has been praising his music too. The Atlantic deemed Mind of Mine “the pinnacle of the current sad-dude pop moment”. But for Malik himself, the debut album means more than just continued fame. Having a solo record allowed Malik to explore his interests in R&B music, whereas previously he’d been limited to the pop/rock he performed with One Direction.
 媒体也为他的音乐点赞。美国《大西洋月刊》评价《我的心灵》为“流行音乐的伤感巅峰”。但对美渣自己而言，首张专辑不仅仅意味着持续走红。发行个人专辑让他有机会探索自己在蓝调音乐上的兴趣，而在小破团里，他的曲风被限制在流行和摇滚音乐里。
 Even in his earliest days as a musician, Malik loved R&B. Many of his fans still remember when Malik appeared as a contestant on the reality TV show, The X-Factor. He auditioned with the song Let Me Love You, an R&B hit by Mario.
 刚出道的时候，美渣就十分热爱蓝调。许多粉丝至今还对他在电视真人秀节目《X音素》中的表现记忆犹新。他在参加海选时演唱的是马里奥的热门蓝调歌曲《让我爱你》。
 In an interview with The Fader magazine last year, he also revealed that he struggled not to do R&B in One Direction. “If I would sing a hook or a verse slightly R&B, or slightly myself, it would always be recorded 50 times until there was a straight version that was pop,” he said.
 去年在接受《调节器》杂志采访时，美渣就透露过自己挣扎着抗拒在小破团唱蓝调。他说，“如果我唱的歌中有一段或主歌部分略带蓝调风格或者我自己的风格的副歌，这首歌将会被反复录制50遍，直到整首歌只有一种风格，那就是流行。”
 For Malik, successful music is a reflection of the artist’s true spirit. So far, that commitment to authenticity has earned him the respect of some major music critics, including The Guardian’s Michael Cragg.
 对美渣来说，成功的音乐是反映歌手真情实感的。如今，美渣的自我坚持为他赢得了不少知名音乐评论家的尊重，其中包括来自英国《卫报》的迈克尔•克拉格。
 “The lasting impression of Mind of Mine... is of someone finally making the music they’ve wanted to make for a long time. That the sound he’s chosen... is basically 2016 writ large may seem bandwagon-jumping, but there’s more than enough good stuff here to suggest it’s been created with love rather than with an eye on ticking boxes,” said Cragg.
 迈克尔•克拉格说：“《我的心灵》始终给我的印象是：这是一个歌手终于做了自己一直想做的音乐。他选择的音乐很可能会在2016年大热，不过里面有很多很棒的元素，它们表明这张专辑是出于热爱而不是（为了迎合受众）勾选排除而生。”
