Look, I get it. Etiquette in the workplace is laid back in the 21st century. Americans aren't exactly known for their decorum (they leave that to the English and French). And things like casual business attire, open office plans, easy access to social media and Whiskey Fridays don't exactly encourage professionalism.
Starting a new job is like the first day at school. The potential for anxiety and awkwardness abounds! In addition to a whole new set of skills and expectations to master, the new hire is about to meet a whole new set of people. Help out when she shows up by making the introductions yourself. The same goes for when a client arrives at your office. You don't want him standing around listening to the crickets' violin concerto while he waits for someone to say hi.
It's easy to hide behind that desk in your private office and only make appearances when you want, like for meetings or birthday cake. But looking unapproachable is not good for morale. It's super awkward for your staff when they pass you in the hall ready with a sunny smile and you completely ignore them or just grunt hello. Even if you're not the extroverted chatty type, you need to make an effort.
So you got the memo on being friendly. But, don't let it go to the other extreme. Gossiping is a cardinal workplace no-no, but it's an even more important rule for the boss not to break. Managers are privileged to some heavily confidential information, from their employees' salaries, to the reason the secretary took that week of personal leave, to internal data that could bring the company down. Don't take advantage of that privilege and risk your job or, at a minimum, embarrass your employees.
Employees know to knock before entering the boss's lair. It would be awesome if you'd do the same when you enter ours. Regardless of whether the office is composed of private workstations, cubicles or an open desk layout, show appreciation for your employees' workspace. If knocking isn't an option, send a quick email or IM before you head their way to make sure your worker isn't in the middle of some urgent task, says etiquette expert Amanda Strickland. "This is an easy way for bosses to show consideration for their employees in the casual atmosphere of the modern office."
Imagine a boss who kicks off his shoes first thing at the office and walks around all day barefoot – with stinky feet! Or one who brings food into his office and never cleans it up, so it perpetually smells like takeout. Or a manager who burps, loudly, with the door open and without excusing himself. These are the gross tales shared by my colleagues and friends during my research for this article.
审校：哎呀 编辑：凯珊 来源：前十网
