Glencore is exploring options for its biggest gold mine — which could include a $2bn sale — as it steps up efforts to reduce its debt burden.
嘉能可(Glencore)正为旗下最大金矿探索出路，这可能包括以20亿美元出售。该公司正加大努力减轻债务负担。
Chinese miners are expected to lead the running to buy the company’s Vasilkovskoye project in Kazakhstan, according to people familiar with the sale process, following a rebound in the price of the precious metal this year.
据知情人士透露，中国矿企预计将领跑对哈萨克斯坦Vasilkovskoye项目的竞购，今年黄金这种贵金属的价格出现了反弹。
Glencore decided to consider a sale after being approached by several suitors and has appointed BMO Capital Markets and Deutsche Bank to handle a possible deal.
在几个求购者接洽之后，嘉能可决定考虑出售该矿，为此已委任蒙特利尔银行资本市场(BMO Capital Markets)和德意志银行(Deutsche Bank)负责处理可能的交易。
A successful disposal would bring Glencore much closer to its target of bringing net debt below $18bn this year, and down to $15bn by the end of 2017 — a strategy intended to reassure investors who last year grew concerned at the Swiss group’s ability to withstand tumbling commodity prices.
若成功处置这笔资产，嘉能可将大幅接近其目标：今年把净债务降低到180亿美元以下，到2017年底进一步降低至150亿美元，该战略旨在安抚投资者，去年投资者越来越担心这家瑞士集团对大宗商品价格暴跌的承受力。
Last year, Glencore’s UK-listed shares were among the worst performers in London. However, the group has moved to shore up confidence through a series of asset sales, including the $2.5bn -disposal of a minority stake in its -agriculture business last month.
去年，嘉能可在英国上市的股票是伦敦市场上表现最差的股票之一。不过该集团已通过出售一系列资产来提振信心，其中包括上月以25亿美元出售农业业务少数股权。
As part of its debt reduction programme, Glencore has already struck $1.4bn of deals to sell precious metals in so-called “streaming” transactions, which give it advance payments in return for the future output from some of its mines. It may therefore decide on some kind of streaming deal for Vasilkovskoye as an alternative to a sale, according to people familiar with the group’s plans.
作为其债务削减计划的一部分，嘉能可已敲定了14亿美元的交易，以所谓的“流”交易出售贵金属，这使其得以从旗下某些矿的未来产量获得预付款。据熟悉该集团计划的人士透露，嘉能可或许因此决定围绕Vasilkovskoye矿达成某种流交易，作为一种替代出售的选择。
Glencore owns almost 70 per cent of Vasilkovskoye, which has more than 5m oz of proven and probable reserves, through its Kazzinc subsidiary.
嘉能可通过子公司Kazzinc拥有Vasilkovskoye金矿近70%股权，该矿的已探明和可能储量超过500万盎司。
