In a rollercoaster movie awards season with no clear favourite in the Oscars best picture race, there is one sure bet—Leonardo DiCaprio, one of the world's biggest celebrities, will finally take home the best actor statuette on Sunday.
正值风云莫测的电影颁奖季，奥斯卡最佳影片究竟花落谁家尚不可知，但有一点可以确定无疑：国际巨星莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥会在本周日的奥斯卡颁奖礼上，将影帝奖杯收归囊中。
DiCaprio's fifth acting Oscar nomination, for his role as a fur trapper bent on revenge in The Revenant, will prove the charm, awards pundits say, and crown the actor's transformation from teen heartthrob to Hollywood heavyweight.
迪卡普里奥凭借饰演《荒野猎人》中一心要复仇的皮草猎人，获得了他的第五次奥斯卡提名。奖项专家表示，此次提名是他实力的见证，他已经成功从俘获少女心的小鲜肉蜕变为好莱坞重量级大咖。
"There are cases when a particular actor is seen as overdue, and this year it's definitely Leonardo DiCaprio," said Dave Karger, chief correspondent of movie website Fandango.
美国电影网站“Fandango”首席记者戴夫·卡格尔说：“某些情况下，我们会认定某位演员获奖已是板上钉钉。今年这个人就是莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥。”
"What is great is that he is going to win for the right performance," Karger said.
卡格尔表示：“他此次将凭借自己精湛的演技冲击奥斯卡，得奖是众望所归。”
Twenty years after his first Oscar nomination as a blue-eyed teen in What's Eating Gilbert Grape, DiCaprio, 41, has swept every major prize in the long Hollywood awards calendar for his role as taciturn Hugh Glass, who is left for dead in the wilderness after being mauled by a bear.
二十年前，迪卡普里奥凭借饰演《不一样的天空》中的蓝眼少年第一次获得奥斯卡提名；今年41岁的他又凭借休·格拉斯这一角色横扫好莱坞各大奖项。影片中的格拉斯沉默寡言，在被熊打伤后又被同伴抛弃荒野等死。
The actor carries the two-and-a-half hour film, which was shot in sub-zero temperatures over seven months, despite barely speaking after the bear rips out his character's throat.
为了这部两个半小时的影片，迪卡普里奥在极寒的户外参与拍摄了七个多月。因为饰演的角色喉咙被熊抓伤，所以他在片中几乎不能说话。
"He's really good in the film. It's not like a throwaway award because of his career. I would be really stunned if he doesn't win," said Variety reporter Tim Gray.
《综艺》杂志记者提姆·格雷评价说：“他在影片中的表演非常出色，奥斯卡奖颁给他可谓实至名归。要是他最终没能获得奥斯卡那才叫人惊讶呢。”
DiCaprio has tried for years to shake off his image as the young man who sent women swooning in the 1990s with Titanic and Romeo + Juliet, even as he partied on yachts with a string of supermodel girlfriends.
上世纪90年代以来，先后出演过《泰坦尼克号》和《罗密欧与茱丽叶》的迪卡普里奥，给人的印象一直都是令女性神魂颠倒的小鲜肉。而他和一帮身材火辣的女伴在游艇上大开派对，更是坐实了花花公子的形象，虽然他多年来一直想努力摆脱这一标签。
In The Revenant, the swaggering star of The Wolf of Wall Street and the smooth charmer of The Great Gatsby is barely recognizable under a greasy mane, straggly beard and frostbitten face.
在影片《荒野猎人》中，曾经《华尔街之狼》中的时髦明星，以及《了不起的盖茨比》中的迷人绅士都已寻觅不见，取而代之的是一个蓬头垢面、满目沧桑的迪卡普里奥。
Ironically, his very appearance may have boosted his Oscar prospects.
讽刺的是，可能正是这夸张的造型为他的奥斯卡之路助了一臂之力。
"What's in Leo's favour this year is that he uglifies himself on screen. He grows a scruffy beard, he rolls in the mud, he desperately needs a bath," said Tom O'Neil, founder of awards tracker Goldderby.com.
奖项跟踪网“Goldderby”的创始人汤姆·奥尼尔对此评论说：“小李子今年受捧的原因是他丑化了荧屏上的自己：他蓄起了邋遢的胡子，浑身裹满泥浆；他迫切需要洗个澡。”
Despite the widespread critical acclaim, DiCaprio has taken no chances, playing an unusually active part in the hand-shaking, smiling marathon that plays out in restaurants, TV studios and on red carpets during awards season.
尽管得到了广泛的认可和称赞，迪卡普里奥却没有过分张扬。整个电影颁奖季，他都在出席宴会、接受电视采访、走红毯，与人握手、微笑时，异乎寻常的亲民。
"He's a notoriously reclusive star who is suddenly very available," said O'Neil.
对此，奥威尔称：“向来低调内敛的他忽然变得和蔼可亲了。”
