The second instalment of an investigation into bribery and doping in world athletics said the behaviour of the sport’s governing body “went beyond sporting corruption and may have been criminal in nature”.
针对世界田径界贿赂和使用兴奋剂行为的调查的第二部分报告称，这项运动的主管机构的行为“超出了体育腐败的范畴，可能具有犯罪性质”。
An investigation published yesterday by the World Anti-Doping Agency (Wada) found that corruption was “embedded”, was not due to “a small number of miscreants” but extended to the top of the governing International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF).
世界反兴奋剂机构(WADA)昨日发表的一项调查报告发现，腐败行为“根深蒂固”，而且不是因为“少数不法分子”，而是延伸至国际田径联合会(IAAF)的高层。
The initial part of the Wada investigation, published in November, led to Russia becoming the first country in history to be banned from all track and field competition, a suspension that will last until Moscow can prove its athletes are clean of performance-enhancing drugs.
世界反兴奋剂机构在去年11月发表了初步调查报告，使俄罗斯成为史上首个被禁止参加所有田径赛事的国家；在这个禁令被取消之前，莫斯科方面必须证明其运动员没有使用提高成绩的兴奋剂。
Written by Dick Pound, a former Wada president, the latest report said Lamine Diack, the disgraced former IAAF president, was “responsible for organising and enabling the conspiracy and corruption that took place” in the organisation.
由世界反兴奋剂机构前主席迪克鸠德(Dick Pound)执笔的最新报告称，已经身败名裂的国际田联前主席拉明迪亚克(Lamine Diack，见上图左)对该组织发生的“阴谋和腐败负有组织和纵容责任”。
Mr Diack was arrested in France late last year on suspicion of taking “more than ㄠ洀” to cover up positive drugs tests.
迪亚克去年末在法国被捕，涉嫌收取“超过100万欧元”以掩盖阳性的兴奋剂检测结果。
But Mr Pound also eased some of the pressure on Sebastian Coe, current head of the IAAF, by suggesting that with the British former middle-distance runner at the helm there was a chance for the organisation to “seize the opportunity and move forward”. Speaking at a press conference as he unveiled his report, he said he could not think of “anyone better to do that” job than Lord Coe.
但庞德也缓解了国际田联现任主席塞巴斯蒂安科(Sebastian Coe)的一部分压力，提出在这位英国前中距离赛跑运动员的领导下，国际田联有望“抓住机遇翻过这一页”。庞德在发布报告的记者会上发言时表示，他想不出有谁会比科勋爵更加胜任这个任务。
The Pound report says Mr Diack discussed cutting a deal with President Vladimir Putin to ensure nine Russian athletes accused of doping did not compete in the 2013 world championships in Moscow.
庞德报告称，迪亚克曾讨论与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔渠京(Vladimir Putin)达成协议，以确保被指控使用兴奋剂的9名俄罗斯运动员不参加2013年在莫斯科举行的世锦赛。
Papa Massata Diack, Mr Diack’s son and a former IAAF marketing consultant, last week received a life ban from the sport’s independent ethics commission for inflicting “unprecedented damage” on athletics.
迪亚克的儿子、国际田联前营销顾问帕帕氠萨塔迪亚克(Papa Massata Diack)上周接到这项运动的独立伦理委员会的终身禁令，理由是他对田径运动造成了“史无前例的损害”。
The Pound investigation outlined how Mr Diack senior created a circle at the IAAF that operated as “an informal illegitimate governance structure”.
庞德调查揭示了老迪亚克怎样在国际田联高层建立一个小圈子，使其实际上成为“一个非正式、非法的治理结构”。
It described as “completely improper” the decision to allow supervision of suspected Russian doping cases to be separately managed by Mr Diack’s personal legal counsel.
调查称，把监督俄罗斯疑似使用兴奋剂案件的管理责任交给迪亚克的私人法律顾问的决定，是“完全不正当的”。
The report concluded that, given the inadequate information on the IAAF database, it would not have been legally possible to bring successful sanctioning processes against any athlete accused of doping.
报告的结论是，由于国际田联数据库中的信息不充分，在法律上不可能对被指使用兴奋剂的任何运动员启动成功的制裁过程。
But Mr Pound, a former Wada president, also voiced fears that instances of extortion in Russia and Turkey may be the “tip of the iceberg”. He said that he was “troubled by unwillingness of IAAF to accept and assume responsibility” for what went wrong.
但是，身为世界反兴奋剂机构前主席的庞德也表示担心，俄罗斯和土耳其曝光的敲诈勒索案例可能只是“冰山一角”。他表示，对“国际田联（对于所出问题）不愿接受和承担责任感到不安”。
Lord Coe had come under intense pressure over the affair after an earlier leak of the report made clear that members of the IAAF’s ruling council, of which he was one, could not have been unaware of the extent of doping and non-enforcement of the rules in the sport.
科勋爵此前在这件事上受到巨大压力，因为早先泄露的报告草案明确表示，国际田联理事会的成员（科是其中之一）不可能不知道田径运动员使用兴奋剂的程度，以及这项运动的规则未得到执行的情况。
But Mr Pound declined to blame the former Olympic champion. “I don’t want to lay the failures of an entire council at the feet of one individual. I don’t think that would be fair. You learn from experience,” he said.
但庞德拒绝责怪这位前奥运冠军。“我不希望把整个理事会的失误归咎于一个人。我不认为那是公平的。你从经验中学习，”他说。
Speaking on Sky television, Paula Radcliffe, the British marathon world record holder, said “people hopefully will be brought to justice” over doping in athletics.
英国马拉松世界纪录保持者保拉拉德克里夫(Paula Radcliffe)对天空电视台(Sky)表示，她希望对田径运动使用兴奋剂负有责任的相关人员“被绳之以法”。
