Experts have rated Shanghai's junior high school teachers among the world's most qualified, thanks to their diversified teaching approaches, well-rounded training and rewarding career paths.
上海市的初中老师教学方法多样、坚持全面发展、专业水平够格，因此专家评定上海的初中教师是世界上最优秀的教育者。
The assessment came after local teachers scored highest in 12 indicators in an international survey.
上海老师得到这一高度评价是因为他们在一项国际调查中获得了12个指标的最高分数。
The city attaches great importance to cultivating first-class teachers and giving them rewarding career opportunities, said Zhang Minxuan, director of the Research Institute of International and Comparative Education at Shanghai Normal University.
上海师范大学国际比较教育研究中心主任张民选说，上海市高度重视一流教师的培养，并且给予了优越的就业机会。
In addition to the 12 indicators, such as efficiency of lessons, encouraging students to be engaged in classes, and professional training, Shanghai teachers' overall performance in nearly 40 indicators far exceeded the international average standard, the survey found.
调查还显示，上海教师不仅在12项指标（包括课程效率、调动学生积极性、专业能力等）中获得高分，在其他近40个指标中，其分数也远远超过了世界教育者的平均水平。
It was carried out by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
本项调查是由经济合作与发展组织进行。
Nearly 4,000 Shanghai teachers from 199 junior high schools responded to the survey, which also polled teachers in 37 other countries and regions, including Australia, Italy, Singapore and Japan, over the past three years.
近三年以来，有来自上海市199所初中的近4000名教师参与了此次调查。调查还涵盖了澳大利亚、意大利、新加坡、日本等37个国家的教师。
In an interview run by the journal Shanghai Education on WeChat, Karine Tremblay, director of the survey project, said Shanghai teachers have in-depth exchanges between peers, which helps them to "grow together on a fast track".
在《上海教育》杂志举办的一次微信访谈中，调查项目负责人卡琳•特伦布莱说，上海的中学教师们与同行进行了深入的交流，这帮助他们“相互促进、快速进步”。
"We found that many initiatives concerning teachers' professional development implemented in Shanghai can serve as world models," she said.
“我们发现上海市实施的某些提高教师专业水平的措施可以在世界范围内奉为典范。”
In the OECD's 2012 Program for International Student Assessment, Shanghai students topped the ranks in math, reading and science tests in competition with those from dozens of countries.
经济合作与发展组织在2012年进行了一次国际范围的学生评估。评估显示，与数十个其他国家的学生相比，上海的学生在数学、阅读和科学实验方面的能力遥遥领先。
This helped to generate the BBC documentary series Are Our Kids Tough Enough? Chinese School, which was broadcast in August.
这使得BBC开始了《中国老师来了》系列纪录片的制作，该纪录片于去年八月播放。
In the series, five Chinese teachers took over a class of 50 teenagers at a school in southern England and taught them in a traditional Chinese way - no talking, no questions, and with lessons focused on note-taking and repetition. The documentary sparked heated debate on the teaching styles in the two countries.
在这一系列纪录片中，五个中国老师接管了英国南部一个有50名青少年的班级，他们用传统的中国方式来进行教学——不许讲话、不许提问，上课方式以记笔记和重复记忆为主。这部纪录片引发了人们关于两国不同教学方式的激烈讨论。
"But the survey results showed that it could be a different story with Shanghai teachers," Zhang said.
张民选说：“但是调查结果告诉人们，上海的老师们有一套不同的训练方法。”
The survey found that teachers who said that thinking and reasoning are more important than passing on knowledge to students accounted for 96 percent of the respondents, the highest proportion globally.
调查显示，96%的老师认为思辨能力的培养比获得知识的多少更重要。持有这种想法的老师比例是全世界最高的。
Zheng Yiwen, a math teacher at an elite high school in Shanghai's Changning district, said: "We prioritize giving students opportunities to think over methods to solve a question by themselves, pair discussions and group work. ... Moreover, we encourage them to give multiple answers to a question."
来自上海长宁区某重点中学的数学老师郑逸文说道：“我们非常重视让学生思考，通过相互讨论和小组合作让他们自行解决问题。同时，我们还鼓励他们对一个问题做出多样解答。”
The survey also found that all teachers in Shanghai receive in-house training, with a veteran teacher as a one-on-one instructor.
调查还发现，上海所有资历较浅的教师都会接受内部培训。教学经验丰富的老师会对他们进行一对一的指导。
The proportion of teachers often observing other teachers' classes was 99 percent, the world's highest.
另外，上海教师之间相互观摩课程的比例也最高，约为99%。
