Turkey has warned Russia it will hold Moscow responsible for terror attacks on its own soil in the wake of a deadly car bombing in Ankara and mounting international tensions over the war in Syria.
土耳其警告俄罗斯称，它将让俄为土耳其国土上发生的恐怖袭击负责。在此之前，安卡拉刚刚发生了致人死亡的汽车炸弹爆炸事件，而国际社会围绕叙利亚战争产生的矛盾也愈演愈烈。
Ahmet Davutoglu, prime minister, said that Wednesday’s suicide attack had been carried out by Salih Necar, a member of the YPG, a Syrian Kurdish militia that the Turkish government denounces as a terrorist group. The attack killed 28 people in the capital’s security district when explosives packed into a car detonated at traffic lights on a busy boulevard.
土耳其总理阿赫迈特达乌特奥卢(Ahmet Davutoglu)表示，周三发生的自杀式袭击是由叙利亚库尔德民兵组织“人民保卫军”(YPG)成员萨利赫蔠慑尔(Salih Necar)发动的。土耳其政府指责YPG是一个恐怖组织。这起袭击发生在土首都安卡拉一个安保严密的地区，当时一辆装有爆炸物的汽车在一个繁忙街道的红绿灯处被引爆，导致28人丧生。
But Mr Davutoglu focused some of his toughest comments on Moscow.
不过，达乌特奥卢将其部分最严厉的批评留给了俄罗斯政府。
“I am warning Russia once more,” he said in a televised statement, saying that Moscow’s condemnation of the attack was insufficient. “If these terror attacks continue, they will be as responsible as the YPG.”
他在一份电视声明中称，莫斯科方面仅仅谴责这起袭击是不够的。他说：“我再次警告俄罗斯，如果继续发生这类恐怖袭击，他们将承担与YPG同样的责任。”
Russia denies any connection with terrorist activities.
俄罗斯否认与恐怖活动有任何联系。
Mr Davutoglu also asked Turkey’s international allies, especially the US, to treat the YPG, whose full name is the Syrian Kurdish People’s Protection Units, as a terrorist organisation rather than a partner in the Syrian war.
达乌特奥卢还要求土耳其的国际盟友——尤其是美国——将YPG视为恐怖组织、而不是叙利亚战争中的合作伙伴。
But, to date, Ankara’s push for other countries to end their support for the Kurdish militia has registered little success.
但迄今为止，土耳其政府要求其他国家不再支持这个库尔德民兵组织的努力收效甚微。
The YPG is backed by the US and other western countries as the most effective Syrian fighting force against Isis. It is also tacitly backed by Russia, whose strikes against mainstream rebels in northern Syria have recently allowed the Kurdish militia to advance.
作为打击“伊拉克和黎凡特伊斯兰国”(ISIS)的最有效的叙利亚武装力量，YPG得到了美国及其他西方国家的支持。此外，该组织还得到俄罗斯心照不宣的支持。后者最近对叙利亚北部的主流反政府军的打击，令这个库尔德民兵组织得以大举进军。YPG总司令部发布的一份声明显示，YPG否认与安卡拉发生的袭击事件有任何关系，称土耳其此举是为了找理由在叙利亚对该组织发动攻势。
