 Turkey hit out at Belgium and the Netherlands over failures in security that preceded this week’s deadly Brussels attacks as two Belgian ministers offered to resign over the matter.
 土耳其抨击本周布鲁塞尔发生致命恐袭之前比利时和荷兰在安全方面的失败。两名比利时部长已就此提出辞职。
 Koen Geens, justice minister, and Jan Jambon, interior minister, offered to step down from their posts amid recriminations over the country’s handling of the terrorist network that killed 31 people and wounded as many as 300 in Brussels this week.
 在比利时处理恐怖分子网络的方式遭受强烈指责的背景下，比利时司法部长科恩•海因斯(Koen Geens)和内政部长让•让邦(Jan Jambon)提交辞呈。这个恐怖分子网络本周在布鲁塞尔造成31人遇难、300人受伤。
 But their requests were turned down by Charles Michel, prime minister, at a cabinet meeting that discussed revelations that Turkey warned both Belgium and the Netherlands last year about one of the suicide bombers.
 但是，比利时总理夏尔•米歇尔(Charles Michel)在内阁会议上拒绝了他们的辞职请求。此次会议讨论了去年土耳其就其中一名自杀式炸弹袭击者警告比利时和荷兰的事。
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Turkish president, has said that Ibrahim El Bakraoui, one of the men who attacked Zaventem airport on Tuesday, was deported by Ankara in July 2015.
 土耳其总统雷杰普•塔伊普•埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)称，周二袭击扎芬特姆机场(Zaventem)的恐怖分子之一Ibrahim El Bakraoui曾在2015年7月被安卡拉驱逐出境。
 Mr Erdogan said Belgian and Dutch authorities were notified that El Bakraoui was a militant during his subsequent deportation to the Netherlands. Ankara says he was a suspected foreign fighter trying to enter Syria.
 埃尔多安称，在El Bakraoui随后被递解至荷兰的过程中，比利时和荷兰有关部门接到通报：他是一名激进分子。安卡拉方面称，他被怀疑是一名试图进入叙利亚的外籍作战人员。
 “This was a textbook case and we did the most we could do,” said a Turkish official, highlighting the extent of what Ankara depicts as a European security failure.
 “这是典型的教科书式案例，我们已经竭尽全力了，”土耳其一位官员称，他强调了被安卡拉方面描述为欧洲安全失败的严重程度。
 Mr Jambon acknowledged that mistakes had been made in the handling of the information provided by Turkey. “Two kinds of error were made: one at the level of the justice ministry and one at the level of the liaison officer with Turkey,” he told Le Soir newspaper.
 比利时内政部长让邦承认，在处理土耳其提供的情报上犯了错误。“（我们）犯了两类错误：一个错误在司法部层面，另一个是在负责土耳其的联络官层面，”他向比利时《晚报》(Le Soir)表示。
 The Turkish official said El Bakraoui had been detained on his sixth day in Turkey in Gaziantep, a southern Turkish city known as a transit point for Syria. As a citizen of an EU country, he had a choice as to where to be deported within the EU and apparently selected the Netherlands.
 土耳其官员称，El Bakraoui在抵达土耳其南部城市加济安泰普(Gaziantep)后的第六天便被拘留。该市是已知的通往叙利亚的中转站。作为欧盟国家公民，El Bakraoui可以选择被遣返至欧盟某个国家，显然他选择了荷兰。
 “We have a set of examples where these people were able to come back, even after we put them on our no-entry lists, because they are able to find other passports in places like Europe,” the official said. “We would like for these radicalised people to be stopped at their own houses, so that Turkey can deal with its own problems.”
 “我们有很多例子表明这些人有能力回到土耳其，即便我们把他们列入禁止入境名单，因为他们有办法在欧洲搞到其他护照，”该官员称，“我们希望这些激进分子在其家中被阻止，让土耳其专心处理自己的问题。”
