An Islamist extremist accused of funding the 2009 Jakarta suicide bombings has been selling advertising space on his website to international brands including Citigroup, IBM and Microsoft using a service provided by Google.
一名被控为2009年雅加达自杀式炸弹袭击提供资金的伊斯兰极端分子，利用由谷歌(Google)提供的一种服务，一直在自己的网站上向包括花旗集团(Citigroup)、IBM和微软(Microsoft)在内的国际品牌出售广告位。
Muhammad Jibril Abdul Rahman, known as Prince of Jihad, is designated as a terrorist on the sanctions lists of the US, the EU and the UN — and subject to an asset freeze, travel ban and arms embargo. He is a prominent member of Jemaah Islamiyah, a militant Islamist group based in Southeast Asia with ties to al-Qaeda.
有“圣战王子”(Prince of Jihad)之称的穆罕默德•贾布里勒•阿卜杜勒•拉赫曼（Muhammad Jibril Abdul Rahman，上图）被列在美国、欧盟和联合国的制裁名单上，性质是恐怖分子，受到资产冻结、旅行禁令并被禁止携带武器。他还是东南亚一个与基地组织(al-Qaeda)有关联的伊斯兰激进组织“伊斯兰祈祷团”(Jemah Islamiyah)的重要成员。
But his Jihadi propaganda website, Arrahmah.com, has been making thousands of dollars by showing its visitors adverts from global companies.
但是，他的圣战宣传网站Arrahmah.com一直在通过向访问者展示跨国公司的广告几千美元几千美元地赚钱。
The ads were delivered to the website, which includes images of beheadings and hanged men, by intermediaries including Google’s AdSense, the world’s biggest online ad network, which take a cut of the revenues.
这些广告被通过谷歌的AdSense等媒介投放到这个含有斩首和绞刑图片的网站上。AdSense是全球最大的在线广告网络，从广告收入中抽取分成。
There is no suggestion that the advertisers or Google knowingly funded a designated terrorist, a criminal offence in the US that carries a penalty of up to 20 years in prison or a $1m fine.
没有任何依据表明广告主或谷歌有意让一个恐怖分子获得资金，这在美国属于刑事犯罪，最高会被判处20年监禁或100万美元罚款。
After being contacted by the Financial Times, Google cancelled Arrahmah.com’s account and the advertisers asked to be removed from the site. However, ads for big western brands continue to appear on the site through other intermediaries.
在英国《金融时报》记者与他们联系后，谷歌删除了Arrahmah.com的账户，各广告主要求从该网站上移除广告。然而，西方大品牌的广告仍然通过其他媒介出现在该网站上。
The ease with which Arrahmah.com tapped into the $160bn online ad market raises questions about whether advertisers and their intermediaries are properly scrutinising the websites with which they do business. These days the placement of online ads is highly automated and they often pass through a complex chain with little human oversight.
Arrahmah.com可以轻易进入价值1600亿美元的在线广告市场，令人不由产生疑问：广告主及媒介是否对它们要投放广告的网站进行了恰当的审查？如今，在线广告的投放高度自动化，往往在几乎无人监督的情况下完成复杂的流程。
This is not the first time that brands running ad campaigns across tens of thousands of different websites have found them appearing on undesirable sites. The UK police have in recent years cracked down on ad-supported sites that allow users to illegally download pirated films and music.
在成千上万的不同网站上做广告的品牌发现自己出现在不良网站上的事情已经不是第一次发生了。英国警方近年就严厉打击允许用户非法下载盗版电影和音乐、依靠广告支持的网站。
“This site violates our terms so we’ve taken action to terminate the account and reimburse affected advertisers.”
“该网站违反了我们的条款，因此我们已经采取行动终止了该账户，并补偿受到影响的广告主。“
The company did not disclose the amount of the reimbursement.
谷歌并未透露具体的补偿金额。
Arrahmah.com — whose slogan is “filter your mind, get the truth” — also illustrates the increasing sophistication of Islamist propaganda organisations and the expanding range of funding sources they have been able to tap. Large technology groups including Google, Twitter and Facebook have come in for criticism by security services in recent years for not doing enough to keep extremists off their platforms.
Arrahmah.com的口号是“净化你的心灵，得到真相”(filter your mind, get the truth)，从该网站可以看出，伊斯兰宣传组织日益复杂化，它们可以利用的资金来源不断扩大。近年来，包括谷歌、Twitter和Facebook在内的大型科技集团受到了安全部门的批评，理由是没有采取足够有力的措施阻止极端分子使用它们的平台。
The website, which promotes extremist views in sections such as “Jihad Zone”, attracts about 600,000 visits a month, according to SimilarWeb, an internet data provider. Arrahmah.com discloses prominently that Mr Abdul Rahman is its chief executive.
该网站在“圣战区”等栏目宣传极端主义观点。据互联网数据提供商SimilarWeb统计，该网站每月访问量约为60万次。Arrahmah.com明确公示阿卜杜勒•拉赫曼是其首席执行官。
“He is the most important online terrorist in Southeast Asia,” said Rohan Gunaratna, head of the International Centre for Political Violence and Terrorism Research at Nanyang Technological University in Singapore. “The purpose of his site is to polarise and radicalise people so that they become ripe for recruitment.”
“他是东南亚地区最重要的网络恐怖分子，”新加坡南洋理工大学(Nanyang Technological University)政治暴力与恐怖主义研究国际中心的负责人罗汉•古纳拉特纳(Rohan Gunaratna)称，“其网站的目的是让人们变得极端和激进，变得适合招募。”
In 2010, Mr Abdul Rahman was sentenced to five years in an Indonesian jail for concealing information related to the terrorist attacks at the JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton hotels in Jakarta, which killed seven people and injured about 50. He had arranged for $10,000 in cash to be passed to the main bomber, according to the US government.
2010年，阿卜杜勒•拉赫曼因隐瞒与发生在雅加达JW万豪酒店(JW Marriott)和丽思卡尔顿酒店(Ritz-Carlton)的恐怖袭击相关的信息，被判处在印度尼西亚一所监狱服刑5年。那次恐怖袭击造成了7人遇难，约50人受伤。根据美国政府的信息，他准备了1万美元现金要转交给炸弹袭击的主犯。
IBM said that it was “looking into the matter and will take all measures with its agency buying partners to prevent recurrence”.
IBM称“正在调查此事，并将与媒体购买合作伙伴一道采取一切措施防止再次发生这种情况”。
An industry insider who has been gathering data about Arrahmah.com for the Financial Times estimated that the site was making thousands of dollars per month based on its ad traffic, and potentially more.
一名为英国《金融时报》收集有关Arrahmah.com信息的业内人士估计，以其广告流量计算，该网站每个月获利数千美元，甚至可能更多。
