 Authorities in Cyprus have arrested the man who hijacked an EgyptAir flight after television pictures showed some of those still on board escaping from the aircraft.
 塞浦路斯当局逮捕了劫持埃及航班的男子，此前电视画面显示机上剩余人质逃离了这架飞机。
 The Cyprus ministry of foreign affairs confirmed in a tweet that the hijacking was over. Nikos Christodoulides, the Cypriot government spokesman, followed up with a second tweet confirming everyone on board was safe. The official tweets followed activity involving security forces around the aircraft at Larnaca airport.
 塞浦路斯外交部在Twitter上证实，劫机事件已经结束。塞浦路斯政府发言人尼科斯•赫里斯托祖里德斯(Nikos Christodoulides)随后发帖证实，飞机上的所有人员均安全获释。官方在Twitter上发帖之前，安全部队对停在拉纳卡机场(Larnaca)的这架飞机采取了一些行动。
 The stand-off lasted for several hours after the Airbus A320 aircraft landed on the island. The crew had been forced to divert it from a scheduled Egyptian domestic flight between Alexandria and Cairo. There were at least 55 passengers on board but most of them were released by the hijacker shortly after landing.
 这架空客A320飞机在塞浦路斯降落后，劫机者和官方僵持了数小时。此前机组成员被迫改变了这架原定从亚历山大港飞往开罗的埃及国内航班的航线。飞机上至少有55名乘客，但是多数人在飞机降落后不久便被释放了。
 There was confusion about the man’s motives after a senior Cypriot official suggested the hijacker had demanded to speak to his ex-wife, who lives in Cyprus.
 塞浦路斯一位高级官员表示，劫机者曾要求与在塞浦路斯生活的前妻交谈，这让人对劫机者的动机感到困惑。
 A report by Cyprus state media said the hijacker had demanded the release of female prisoners in Egypt.
 塞浦路斯官方媒体报道称，劫机者曾要求释放埃及女囚犯。
 The Egyptian authorities have not commented on a possible motive, but confirmed that the pilot of the aircraft had said he was forced to land at Larnaca, the island’s main commercial airport, following a threat from an individual on board who claimed he was wearing an explosive belt.
 埃及政府并未对劫机者可能的动机置评，但证实该航班的飞行员曾报告，在遭到飞机上某个声称佩戴爆炸物皮带的乘客威胁后，他被迫在塞浦路斯主要的商用机场——拉纳卡机场降落。
 Nicos Anastasiades, Cypriot president, had earlier said that the incident was “not something which has to do with terrorism”.
 塞浦路斯总统尼科斯•阿纳斯塔夏季斯(Nicos Anastasiades)此前表示，该事件“与恐怖主义无关”。
 Reuters reported that the authorities had stopped a New York-bound Egypt- Air flight from leaving Cairo because of security fears relating to a hijacking.
 路透社报道称，出于与该劫机事件相关的安全担忧，埃及政府取消了一班从开罗出发、飞往纽约的埃及航班。
 There was confusion about the identity of the hijacker. The Cyprus foreign ministry yesterday said in a tweet that he was Seif Eldin Mustafa. It did not provide further details.
 劫机者的身份存在疑问。塞浦路斯外交部昨天在Twitter上称，劫机者名叫Seif Eldin Mustafa。但并未提供更多细节。
 The Egyptian government was forced to apologise earlier after wrongly identifying one of the passengers on the aircraft as the culprit.
 埃及政府曾把一名乘客指认为劫机犯，此后被迫为此道歉。
 EgyptAir confirmed the arrest of the hijacker and the release of the remaining hostage. The airline said that the two pilots, three cabin crew and three passengers had been held on the aircraft.
 埃及航空(EgyptAir)确认了劫机者被逮捕和剩余人质被释放的消息。这家航空公司表示，此前两名飞行员、三名机组成员和三名乘客被扣留在飞机上。
 Yesterday’s incident will come as a setback for Egypt, which has been trying to convince the world that its airports are safe after a bomb brought down a Russian airliner last year, shortly after take-off from Sharm el-Sheikh airport in the Sinai, killing more than 200 people. The attack on the aircraft was claimed by Isis.
 昨日的事件将成为埃及的一次挫折。去年，一家俄罗斯客机发生炸弹爆炸、坠毁在埃及境内之后，埃及政府一直在努力向世界证明，埃及的机场是安全的。那架俄罗斯客机从西奈的沙姆沙伊赫(Sharm el-Sheikh)机场起飞后不久便发生了爆炸，造成逾200人死亡。伊拉克和黎凡特伊斯兰国(ISIS)声称对袭击俄罗斯客机的事件负责。
