Fosun is not the focus of an investigation that has ensnared its chairman, the Chinese conglomerate said on Sunday in an attempt to reassure nervous investors.
复星(Fosun)周日表示集团本身不是其董事长被卷入的调查的对象，这家中国企业集团试图安抚紧张的投资者。
The aggressively acquisitive owner of Club Med spoke to investors and the media after Guo Guangchang had been out of sight for nearly four days, adding to jitters in China’s private sector.
地中海俱乐部(Club Med)的东家、收购意识较强的复星对投资者和媒体表态之前，郭广昌已经失联近四天，加剧了中国民营企业界的不安感。
Mr Guo, known as China’s Warren Buffett, is not accused of any wrongdoing. Liang Xinjun, Fosun chief executive, said Mr Guo was “assisting the judicial authorities with an investigation but it is not because the company has problems”.
有“中国巴菲特”之称的郭广昌没有被指控犯有任何不当行为。复星集团首席执行官梁信军表示，郭广昌在“配合司法机关调查……并非公司有问题”。
“It is the duty of any citizen to assist a government investigation,” he added. “This is a routine process in China.”
“配合司法机关是公民的义务，”他补充说，“也是国内很多案件侦破的常规司法程序。”
Wang Qunbin, the company’s president, stressed that Mr Guo was assisting in his individual capacity. “So far the investigation is focusing more on the individual.”
公司总裁汪群斌强调，郭广昌正因个人原因协助调查。“目前还是协助调查状态，更多的是侧重于个人原因。”
The company gave no details of the nature of the investigation in which Mr Guo was assisting. “Please do understand that this is quite a sensitive event and our knowledge about the investigation is limited,” Mr Wang said.
该公司没有提供郭广昌协助调查的案情性质。“协助调查是一个非常敏感的事，公司知道的事情也有限，”汪群斌表示。
While reiterating Fosun’s statement on Friday that they could consult Mr Guo “via appropriate means”, Mr Liang and Mr Wang declined to say if they were in touch directly or through intermediaries.
梁信军和汪群斌重申复星上周五发布的公告，称他们可以通过“适当方式”征求郭广昌的意见，但拒绝透露他们是直接与其接触还是要通过中介人。
Fosun executives sought to reassure investors about the financial position and creditor support, saying the group had cash and liquid assets of more than Rmb67bn while its net debt ratio had been reduced 9.8 percentage points to 53.5 per cent during the past year.
复星集团的高管们试图在财务状况和债权人支持方面安抚投资者，称该集团拥有超过670亿元人民币的现金和流动资产，而其净负债比率已在过去一年下降9.8个百分点，至53.5%。
“Fosun is not run by one person but managed by a group of executives,” Mr Wang said, noting that he and other senior executives had worked together for almost 25 years. “The banks have a good understanding about the events and they will continue to support us.”
“复星的创业不是一个人创业，而是一个创业团队在创业，”汪群斌说。他指出，他和其他高管在一起工作已有近25年。“银行对这个事情有很好的理解，对复星未来的发展还是继续关心和支持。”
The executives said Fosun had recently completed the disposal of a minority stake in Focus Media, netting Rmb1.48bn. “We will continue to improve our liquidity position,” Mr Wang said.
集团高管们表示，复星最近已完成分众传媒(Focus Media)少数股权的出售，回笼14.8亿元人民币的资金。汪群斌称，复星将继续改善其流动性状况。
“A lot of our investments are only held at cost,” he said. “But these are excellent assets and we believe their real value is higher than their book value.”
他表示，复星的很多投资仅以成本持有。但这些都是优质资产，其实际价值应当高于账面价值。
Fosun suspended its shares on Friday and later said that Mr Guo, one of the country’s best-known entrepreneurs, was “assisting in certain investigations carried out by the mainland judicial authorities”. Fosun has asked the Hong Kong stock exchange to resume trading its shares when the market reopens on Monday.
复星上周五将其股票停牌，后来发表公告称，其董事长、中国最知名的企业家之一郭广昌“正协助相关司法机关调查”。复星已请求香港交易所(HKEx)周一开盘后让其股票复牌。
