 Beautifulpeople.com, an elite dating website for the exclusively good looking, has reportedly had the private data of more than 1 million users leaked.
 Beautifulpeople.com是仅对美貌人士开放的精英相亲交友网站，据报道，其一百多万用户的隐私数据遭到泄露。
 The breach leaked information such as addresses, sexual preferences and incomes, as well as millions of private messages, sold online by the hackers.
 这些被黑客窃取并泄露的隐私信息达数百万条，住址、性取向和收入等信息都被放到网上售卖。
 Beautifulpeople.com claims to exclude unattractive people by having existing members rate those trying to sign up. Prospective members must pass a certain ratings threshold to be allowed on the website: millions have been denied access, the company says, while thousands of members have been removed for gaining weight after joining.
 Beautifulpeople.com网站称，现有会员会对注册人员的外貌进行评分，以筛掉那些魅力不够的人。想要成为会员，必须要达到一个特定的评分标准。该公司称，已有好几百万申请者被拒绝，而且好几千名会员因在注册后体重增加而被除名。
 The site claims to be “the largest dating community of attractive people in the world” and to have spawned 700 marriages.
 该网站说他们是“世界上最大的魅力人士相亲交友社区”，且已促成了700桩婚事。
 It says several members have been “discovered” on the website and gone on to jobs in TV or modelling. In 2011, it claimed that a "Shrek" virus had allowed thousands of unworthy people to join the website, although this was dismissed as a publicity stunt.
 Beautifulpeople.com还称，有几位会员在网站上被“发掘”，得到了电视台或模特行业的工作机会。2011年，该网站称遭到了 “怪物史莱克”病毒的袭击，数以千计不够资格的人加入了网站，后来这一说法被澄清是炒作。
 Beautifulpeople.com was originally hacked in December, when the breach appeared to be confined to a database of test accounts. However, the data of real users is now being traded online, security expert Troy Hunt told Forbes.
 安全专家特罗伊•亨特对《福布斯》说，最初，Beautifulpeople.com网站在12月遭到了黑客袭击，但似乎只是侵入了测试账户的数据库。而现在真实用户的数据被放到网上售卖。
 Dozens of different details are reportedly included in the leak, among them education, phone numbers and location data.
 据报道，泄露的信息中包含各种各样的细节，比如教育信息、电话号码、地理位置等等。
 More damaging, however, can simply be the existence of a profile on a dating website, especially for those who may not want their existence made public. Mr Hunt said that the email addresses in the leak included 170 ending in “.gov”, meaning US government employees used their work email addresses to sign up.
 然而，更具破坏性的是会员在交友网站建档这一事实本身，特别是那些不想让别人知道自己在交友网站的人。亨特先生说泄露的邮箱地址中有170个以“.gov”结尾，说明有美国公务员用自己的工作邮箱地址注册了相亲网站。
 There are also 170 .gov email addresses in the Beautiful People breach. I keep seeing a heap of gov stuff where it probably shouldn't be...
 在魅力人士网站的入侵资料中还有170个以.gov结尾的邮箱地址。我总是看见一堆堆政府人员的信息，或许这些信息不应该出现在这种地方……
 — Troy Hunt (@troyhunt) April 25, 2016
 ——特罗伊•亨特（@troyhunt）2016年4月25日
 Ashley Madison, a dating website exclusively for married people looking for affairs, was hacked last year, embarrassing thousands.
 去年，专门为已婚人士寻找婚外情的交友网站“阿什利•麦迪逊”遭黑客攻击，数千名用户陷入尴尬境地。
 Beautifulpeople.com reiterated a statement from December about the hack being limited to a test server but has not commented on claims the leak was wider than that.
 Beautifulpeople.com网站重申去年12月的那个声明，称黑客只是攻击了测试服务器，但对于此次更大范围的信息泄露，他们尚未作出回应。
