Volkswagen has concluded that its problems involving carbon dioxide emissions are far less widespread than feared, in a rare piece of good news for the scandal-hit German carmaker.
大众汽车(Volkswagen)得出结论，其二氧化碳排放问题的涉及面远远小于之前担忧的程度。对于这家深陷丑闻的德国汽车制造商来说，这是一个难得的好消息。
One day before its chief executive and chairman will appear before investors and the media for the first time since the emissions scandal broke in September, the company said only 36,000 vehicles were affected by CO2 errors, and not the 800,000 it had originally suggested.
大众首席执行官及董事长将在自9月“排放门”被爆出后首次出现在投资者和媒体面前的前一天，该公司称，受二氧化碳数据偏差影响的汽车仅有3.6万辆，并非最初提出的80万辆。
VW said on Wednesday that it had largely completed its investigation into the carbon dioxide issue, one of three separate emissions problems it is facing.
周三，大众表示，已经基本上完成了对二氧化碳问题的调查。这是大众面临的3个独立的排放问题之一。
Initially the carmaker had thought the fuel efficiency numbers of 800,000 cars would have to be restated at a cost of about ㈠ . But it now believes only about 36,000 cars from this model year would need restatements of a “few grams” of CO2 per kilogramme, representing an increase of about 0.1 to 0.2 litres per 100km in consumption.
最初，这家汽车制造商认为修正80万辆汽车的燃油效率需要耗资约20亿欧元。但是如今大众相信，相关车型年仅有约3.6万辆汽车需要对每公里的二氧化碳排放量修改“数克”，相当于每100公里的耗油量增加约0.1至0.2升。
All of the remaining cars had the correct values and VW had found no signs of unlawful tampering with CO2 levels. That would mean no changes are necessary in the vehicles.
其余所有车辆的数据都是正确的，大众未发现存在非法篡改二氧化碳排放水平的迹象。这意味着，这些汽车不需要任何改变。
VW said the presumed cost of ㈠ “has not been confirmed”. It will now submit its results to German regulators, who will check them before Christmas.
大众称，原预计的20亿欧元成本“未得到确认”。大众现在将把调查结果提交给德国监管部门，后者将在圣诞节前审核这些结果。
VW’s shares rose by almost 8 per cent to ㄠ33.70 in afternoon trading in Frankfurt as investors welcomed the news.
投资者对该消息表示欢迎，大众股价在法兰克福午后上涨近8%，至133.70欧元。
Thursday’s press conference is expected to focus on the carmaker’s two other emissions problems, both involving cheating on nitrogen oxides levels.
周四的新闻发布会预计将聚焦于大众涉及氮氧化物排放量作假的另外两个问题。
