 Volkswagen has offered to buy back nearly half a million cars in the US in what could be the world’s biggest auto repurchase deal, as the German carmaker sought to draw a line under its emissions scandal.
 大众汽车(Volkswagen)提议由其在美国回购近50万辆汽车，这可能是世界上最大的汽车回购协议。这家德国汽车制造商正试图了结排放丑闻。
 The final terms of a deal with US regulators are still being negotiated, including the scale of the compensation for US car owners and the costs to VW, but are expected to run into billions of dollars.
 该公司仍在与美国监管机构谈判一份协议的最终条款，包括补偿美国车主的力度和大众承担的成本，但预计这些成本将达到数十亿美元。
 It emerged in September that VW had installed test-cheating defeat devices in up to 11m diesel cars globally that served to understate their emissions of harmful nitrogen oxides, or NOX.
 去年9月爆出的消息称，大众曾在全球多达1100万辆柴油汽车上安装“减效装置”，以便在检测中低报它们的氮氧化物排放量。
 Analysts have estimated it will cost VW more than $7bn to buy back the 480,000 US cars, though it is not known how many consumers will accept the deal. Analysts expect the 6.7bn that VW set aside last year to be raised to 15bn today when it releases some details from its delayed earnings results — with some analysts estimating the final bill may exceed 45bn.
 分析师们估计，在美国回购48万辆汽车将给大众带来逾70亿美元成本，但不清楚有多少消费者会接受这个方案。分析师们预计，今日大众发布延期的财报时，将把相关拨备由去年的67亿欧元提高至150亿欧元。有些分析师估计最终的账单可能超过450亿欧元。
 The global car industry was shaken last year after the VW emissions scandal broke, denting consumer confidence and triggering a series of investigations in other countries into VW’s practices and those of rival carmakers.
 去年大众曝出的排放丑闻震动了全球汽车业，削弱了消费者的信心，并在其他国家引发了针对大众乃至其它汽车制造商的一系列调查。
 Investigators in France and Japan yesterday raided offices of Peugeot and Mitsubishi Motors in separate probes related to vehicle performance and emissions, while the UK released a report saying 37 different diesel cars in the UK failed emissions tests.
 法国和日本的调查人员昨日突击搜查了标致(Peugeot)和三菱汽车(Mitsubishi Motors)的办公室，这些互不关联的调查涉及车辆性能和排放。同时英国发表的一份报告称，37款柴油汽车未能通过英国的排放测试。
 VW, which must finalise a deal with US authorities before a court deadline on June 21, still faces the prospect of lawsuits from customers and investors.
 大众必须在法庭设定的6月21日最后期限之前与美国有关部门敲定协议。该公司仍可能面临客户和投资者的诉讼。
 US district court judge Charles R Breyer said at a hearing in San Francisco yesterday that there was still a lot of work to be done but added that the parties had devised “a concrete plan”.
 美国地区法院法官查尔斯•布雷耶(Charles R Breyer)昨日在旧金山的庭审期间表示仍有大量工作需要完成，但补充称，双方制定了“一份具体的计划”。
 “I’ve never seen any buyback proposal [of] that size. It’s unprecedented,” said Arndt Ellinghorst, analyst at Evercore ISI. “It doesn’t mean every consumer will trade their cars back. But they might do.”
 “我从来没有见过这种规模的回购提议。这是前所未有的，”Evercore ISI分析师阿恩特•埃林霍斯特(Arndt Ellinghorst)表示。“这并不意味着每一位消费者都会回卖他们的汽车。但他们可能这么做。”
 The move to buy back cars in the US is likely to increase pressure on VW to offer a more generous compensation package to customers in Europe. Although the company has started recalling affected cars in Europe, it has not offered compensation to customers.
 在美国回购汽车的行动很可能会增加大众所受的压力，要求它向欧洲客户提供更为慷慨的补偿方案。虽然该公司已经开始在欧洲召回受影响的汽车，但它迄今没有提出要赔偿客户。
 VW said yesterday: “The arrangements in the making in the US will have no legal bearing on proceedings outside of the US.”
 大众昨日表示：“在美国酝酿的安排与在美国以外的诉讼没有法律关联。”
