The latest official statistics show that the long ice age of wage stagnation is grinding on - and that graduate earnings have been in a deep freeze stretching back for the past decade.
最新的官方统计显示，漫长的工资滞长的冰河时代还在稳步推进 – 过去十年来，大学毕业生的收入一直深度冻结。
Since university tuition fees in England rose to ￡9,000 there have been recurrent questions about whether it's still financially advantageous to get a degree.
自从大学学费升至9千英镑，对攻读学位是否仍然处于经济上有利的地位，一直存在反复的疑问。
The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills has published its latest figures on the graduate labour market - and it shows that graduates are still getting a career benefit.
商业，创新和技能部公布了大学生就业市场的最新数字 – 数字显示，大学生仍然获得职业好处。
They earn more on average than non-graduates and are much less likely to be unemployed. Postgraduates earn even more and those with higher grades of degrees are paid more than those with lower.
他们一般说来比非大学生挣得多，失业的可能性小得多。 研究生挣得还要多，学历高的比学历低的获得更多报酬。
But the big backdrop is the long-term flatlining in earnings. Employment levels have picked up towards pre-recession levels, but pay is still under a layer of permafrost.
但大背景是长期的收入停滞。就业水平已向衰退前的水平回升，但薪酬仍然处于永冻层下。
The latest graduate earnings figures track median salaries back to 2006. There was a slight upwards nudge between 2006 and 2008, for young and older graduates - and since then barely a flicker.
最新的大学生收入数字显示，薪酬中位数回到了2006年。新老毕业生的薪酬大约在2006年至2008年间略有上升 – 从那以来几乎没有变动。
What is really tough about these figures is that they are not real-terms numbers, taking into account inflation. These are salaries in cash terms.
这些数字真正严峻的地方在于，把通胀考虑在内，它们并不是实际收入。这些只是现金意义上的薪水而已。
A young graduate in 2008 was typically earning about ￡24,000 and in 2015 a young graduate was still typically earning ￡24,000.
2008年毕业的大学生通常挣大约2.4万镑，2015年刚毕业的大学生一般还是挣2.4万镑。
Apart from the rising costs of bills and underlying inflation, think about the other extra factors hitting graduate finances. They will have ￡27,000 in tuition fee debt, not to mention sky-rocketing rent and property prices. More money is going out, without any more going in.
除了上升的账单费用和潜在的通胀，想想对大学生财务造成打击的其它额外因素吧。他们将欠下2.7万镑的学费，更不用说飙升的房租和房价。更多的钱要花出去，却没有更多的钱进来。
The Centre for Economic Performance at the London School of Economics has described this stagnation in earnings as unlike anything since the 1920s - with an estimated 9% real-terms drop in average earnings since the recession.
敦伦经济学院的经济表现中心称此次收入滞长不像上世纪20年代以来的任何一次 – 从衰退以来平均收入以实际价值计下降了约9%。
