 Austria’s far-right Freedom party won an unexpectedly powerful victory in the first round of the country’s presidential election, highlighting the potential forEurope’s refugee crisis to send shockwaves across the continent.
 奥地利极右翼自由党(Freedom)在该国总统大选的首轮投票中出人意料地赢得大胜，凸显出难民危机在欧洲各国引发冲击波的可能性。
 FPÖ candidate Norbert Hofer won more than 35 per cent of the vote in Sunday’s poll — far more than any other candidate — with most of the vote counted. He had campaigned on a nationalistic platform of strict limits on immigration, tough rules for asylum seekers and the break-up of the two-party system that has dominated Austrian politics since the second world war.
 在多数计票已经完成的情况下，自由党候选人诺贝特•霍弗(Norbert Hofer)在周日的投票中赢得了逾35%的票数，远超其他任何候选人。他以民族主义立场为竞选平台，包括严格限制移民、收紧对庇护寻求者的规定，以及打破二战以来主宰奥地利政坛的两党体制。
 The result demonstrated the surging support for anti-immigrant parties in Europe. Although the Austrian president has largely a ceremonial role, it was the strongest national performance ever by the FPÖ, one of Europe’s best established far-right parties.
 这一结果显示出欧洲反移民政党的人气急剧上升。尽管奥地利总统在很大程度上是一个象征角色，但这是自由党这个欧洲根基最深的极右翼政党之一历来最强劲的全国表现。
 The result sent a signal to other European countries that the refugee crisis mattered hugely, said Franz Schellhorn, director of Agenda Austria, a think-tank. “You can’t just say we’re going to manage it, it is not a problem. This is the lesson from Austria.”
 智库奥地利议程(Agenda Austria)主任弗朗茨•舍尔霍恩(Franz Schellhorn)表示，该选举结果向其他欧洲国家传递出一个信号：难民危机影响巨大。“你不能只是在口头上说，我们会控制它，没有问题。这是来自奥地利的教训。”
 Since 1945, the occupants of Vienna’s Hofburg palace have been backed by either the centre-left Social Democratic party (SPÖ) or the centre-right People’s party (ÖVP), which currently form a coalition government. But in a historic upset, the two main parties’ presidential candidates each polled only around 11 per cent.
 自1945年以来，入主维也纳霍夫堡宫殿(Hofburg Palace)的要么是中左的社会民主党(Social Democratic Party)，要么是中右的人民党(People's Party)，这两个政党目前组成一个联合政府。然而，这两个主要政党的总统候选者获得的票数均只有11%左右，这是一个历史性的颠覆。
 The election of a Freedom party candidate in the final election round on May 22 could trigger a political crisis in Vienna, especially if Mr Hofer tried to obstruct or even dismiss the government, led by social democratic chancellor Werner Faymann.
 自由党候选人如果在5月22日的最后一轮选举中当选，可能在维也纳引发一场政治危机——尤其是如果霍弗试图对以社会民主党总理维尔纳•法伊曼(Werner Faymann)为首的这届政府制造障碍甚至将其解散。
 More broadly, Sunday’s results are likely to increase nervousness in capitals across Europe about the surge in populist, fringe and extremist political parties.
 从更广泛的意义上说，周日的选举结果可能会令欧洲各国首都对民粹主义、边缘和极端主义政党的崛起愈发担忧。
