In his seventh and final State of the Union address, President Barack Obama touted his accomplishments and focused on his vision for the future, in an optimistic speech that attempted to define his legacy as he enters his final year in office.
美国总统奥巴马在发表第7次、也是最后一次国情咨文讲话中，赞扬自己所取得的成就，并将目光集中于未来。在带有乐观色彩的演讲中，奥巴马在步入任期最后一年之际尝试对自己的政治遗产予以确定。
Addressing a packed House of Representatives chamber Tuesday in the U.S. Capitol, Obama appeared relaxed and his tone was largely positive as he focused on the need to heal the country's deep political divides.
奥巴马星期二在国会众议院议事大厅发表国情咨文演讲，大厅里座无虚席。奥巴马显得很放松，讲话基调是积极的，他集中阐述了弥合国内深刻政治分歧的必要性。
But the president also took several swipes at his critics, on several occasions offering indirect but harsh criticisms of the Republican. In particular, Obama slammed "politics that targets people because of race or religion," a statement seen as a criticism of Republican frontrunner Donald Trump.
但奥巴马也回击了自己的批评者，数次间接严厉地批评了共和党对手，特别抨击了基于种族和宗教因素而攻击他人的政治行为，这被视为对共和党支持率最高的总统参选人川普的批评。
"When politicians insult Muslims, when a mosque is vandalized, or a kid is bullied, that doesn't make us safer. That's not telling it like it is. It's just wrong," he said. "It diminishes us in the eyes of the world. It makes it harder to achieve our goals. And it betrays who we are as a country."
Obama also hit out at his domestic opponents on economic issues, saying "anyone claiming that America's economy is in decline is peddling fiction."
奥巴马还在经济问题上抨击了国内的反对者。他说，声称美国经济在走下坡路的任何人都是在散播不实之词。他指出，美国目前拥有世界上最强劲、最具持续性的经济。
On foreign policy, Obama acknowledged the threat posed by terrorist groups, including Islamic State. But he warned against those who say the world is sinking into "World War III."
在谈到外交政策时，奥巴马承认来自包括伊斯兰国在内的恐怖组织的威胁，但他指出，世界并非像一些人所说的那样正在滑向“第三次世界大战”。
The Republican response to Obama's speech was delivered by South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley. Governor Haley accused the president of not living up to his "soaring words."
美国南卡罗莱纳州州长哈利代表共和党对奥巴马的国情咨文讲话做出反应。她批评奥巴马做的不如讲的那样漂亮。
"As he enters his final year in office, many Americans are still feeling the squeeze of an economy too weak to raise income levels. We’re feeling a crushing national debt, a health care plan that has made insurance less affordable and doctors less available, and chaotic unrest in many of our cities," Haley said.
哈利说，在奥巴马的总统任期迈入最后一年之际，美国经济依旧疲软，收入难以增加，使美国人民感到压力，国债使人不胜重负，健保法让健康保险费用变得更加难以承受，医生也更难约到，同时美国很多城市出现骚乱。
"Even worse, we are facing the most dangerous terrorist threat our nation has seen since September 11th, and this president appears either unwilling or unable to deal with it." she added.
哈利说，更糟糕的是，美国面临着9-11以来最危险的恐怖主义威胁，而奥巴马总统要么是不愿意、要么是没有能力应对这一局面。
