President Barack Obama said the worst mistake of his presidency was a lack of planning for the aftermath of the 2011 toppling of Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi.
贝拉克•奥巴马总统承认，其任期内所犯的最大错误就是，在2011年推翻利比亚独裁者穆阿迈尔•卡扎菲之前未能制定计划应对后果。
"Probably failing to plan for the day after what I think was the right thing to do in intervening in Libya," he said in a Fox News interview aired Sunday.
在星期日播出的福克斯新闻的访谈中，他说：“我认为我们在干预利比亚的过程中采取了正确的行动，但或许我们是对行动之后的局面缺少计划。”
This is not the first time in recent weeks he has talked about Libya and the NATO-led intervention which resulted in Gadhafi's death in October of that year, months after NATO first intervened.
在最近几周中，这已不是他第一次谈起利比亚和以北约为首的军事干涉了。北约第一次进行干涉的几个月后，同年10月，卡扎菲即死亡。
In a profile published last month in The Atlantic, the President told author Jeffrey Goldberg that British Prime Minister David Cameron became "distracted by a range of other things" after the operation.
上月在《大西洋月刊》发表的一篇传略中，奥巴马总统对作者杰弗里•戈德堡说，英国首相卡梅伦在行动之后就“分心干别的事去了”。
Cameron, along with former French President Nicolas Sarkozy, took the brunt of Obama's criticism.
法国前总统萨科齐也同卡梅伦一样受到了奥巴马的尖锐批评。
Although Obama said he thinks the intervention went as well as it could, he views Libya today as a "mess."
尽管奥巴马称对利比亚采取的干预行动已经是所能做的最好的了，但他也认为现在的利比亚是个“烂摊子”。
In The Atlantic, Obama said he had more faith in Europeans "being invested in a follow-up" given their geographical "proximity" and largely blames their inaction for the "mess."
在《大西洋月刊》中，奥巴马说他本来寄希望于欧洲国家“投入后续工作”，因为他们有“地缘优势”，并在很大程度上把这一“烂摊子”归咎于他们的不作为。
Obama said in the Sunday interview that "saving the economy from a great depression" after the financial crisis in 2008 was his top White House accomplishment.
在上周日的访谈中，奥巴马提到，他在任期内的最大成就是2008年金融危机之后“把经济从大萧条中拯救出来”。
And—as he has before—he said his best day in the White House was when health care reform passed.
并且，他还再次提到，他在白宫最美好的日子就是医疗改革法案通过的那天。
He also recounted that his worst day in the White House was "the day we traveled up to Newtown after Sandy Hook" when 20 children, mostly first-graders, were killed on December 14, 2012 at an elementary school. He spoke at a local prayer vigil two days later.
他还说起他在白宫最糟糕的一天就是“桑迪•胡克枪机案发生后我们前往纽敦市的那天”。2012年12月14日，在桑迪·胡克小学，20个小孩被枪杀，其中多数还在上一年级。事件发生两天后，奥巴马在当地守夜祈祷会上发表了讲话。
