U.S. President Barack Obama will discuss his new initiatives to curb gun violence in remarks Tuesday at the White House, as he works to detail to Americans the executive orders he says will not step on Constitutional rights.
美国总统奥巴马星期二将在白宫讨论有关遏制枪支暴力的新计划，努力向美国民众详细阐述他将颁布的控枪行政令。他表示，控枪令不会侵犯宪法所赋予的权利。
Some of the measures, first announced by the White House on Monday, include expanded background checks, more effective enforcement of gun laws, increased mental health treatment and more research into gun safety technology.
白宫星期一宣布的一些措施包括扩大对购枪者的背景调查，提高枪支管理法规的有效执行，加强精神疾病治疗，以及扩大对枪支安全技术的研究。
Obama presented the recommendations, discussed during a White House meeting Monday, with top officials including U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch and FBI Director James Comey.
奥巴马星期一在白宫召开的会议上，与美国司法部长林奇和联邦调查局局长科米等政府高层官员提出了相关建议。
"Although we have to be very clear that this is not going to solve every violent crime in this country. It's not going to prevent every mass shooting. It's not going to keep every gun out of the hands of a criminal. It will potentially save lives in this country, and spare families the pain and the extraordinary loss that they've suffered as a consequence of a firearm being in the hands of the wrong people."
One key element of the plan includes requiring any business selling firearms, including at gun shows, to get a license and conduct background checks.
这个计划中的一个关键部分是要求任何销售枪支的商主，包括枪支展销会，都必须获得执照并对购枪者进行背景调查。
Recent polls show an increase in the number of Americans who support background checks on those seeking to purchase a firearm. But many gun owners in the country feel that any attempt to regulate firearms violates their constitutional right to own guns.
最新民调显示，支持对购枪者进行背景调查的美国人有所增加。但是，许多有枪的人却觉得，任何对枪支的管控都违反宪法赋予他们拥有枪支的权利。
The Republican-led Congress opposes more restrictions on gun ownership, and any actions planned by the president likely will face legal challenges.
共和党控制的国会反对加强限制枪支拥有权，奥巴马总统计划采取的任何行动都可能面临法律挑战。
Each year, tens of thousands of people are killed by guns in the United States, including in mass shootings and suicides, committed at far greater rates than in other countries around the world, said the president.
奥巴马总统表示，美国每年都有数以万计的人死于枪击，包括大规模枪击事件和自杀，这个比率远远超过世界其他国家。
