 Barack Obama said yesterday that he was “concerned” about whether Iraqi prime minister Haider al-Abadi could hold on to power, and that additional financial aid for the country would depend on resolving its political crisis.
 巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)昨日表示，他“担心”伊拉克总理海德尔•阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)能否保住大权，而美国对该国的进一步财政援助将取决于该国解决政治危机。
 The US president also said it was possible the ceasefire in Syria could soon collapse and that a failure to reach a political settlement there could lead to fighting continuing for years.
 美国总统还表示，叙利亚的停火可能很快就会崩溃，如果未能达成政治和解，战火可能持续多年。
 Mr Obama was speaking at the end of a sometimes tense two-day trip to Saudi Arabia where he pledged to continue providing military support to Washington’s Gulf allies to defend themselves against Iran, but also encouraged them to engage diplomatically with Tehran.
 奥巴马是在对沙特阿拉伯有时气氛紧张的两天访问结束之际发表讲话的。他承诺将继续为美国在海湾地区的盟友提供军事援助，帮助它们抵御伊朗，但他同时也鼓励这些国家与德黑兰进行外交接触。
 A senior White House official said the two days of conversations, first with the Saudis and then yesterday with the leaders of the Gulf Co-operation Council, had been an attempt to “clear the air” after the tensions over the Iran nuclear deal, which many in the Gulf opposed.
 一名白宫高级官员表示，这两天的会谈第一天是和沙特方面进行，昨日则是和海湾合作委员会(Gulf Co-operation Council)国家的领导人进行，目的是消除伊朗核协议达成后的紧张气氛；海湾多国都反对这一协议。
 In Baghdad, Mr Abadi is struggling to put together a new cabinet at a time when the country is at war with Isis and facing a severe economic crisis because of falling oil prices.
 在巴格达，阿巴迪正在该国与“伊拉克和黎凡特伊斯兰国”(ISIS)交战并面临因油价下跌导致的严重经济危机之际艰难组建新内阁。
 “I’m concerned. I think prime minister Abadi has been a good partner for us,” said Mr Obama. “With respect to direct help to the Iraqi government, what I recommended was that we wait to assess how the current government turmoil in Iraq plays itself out over the next couple of weeks.”
 “我很担心。我认为阿巴迪总理对我们而言是一个好的合作伙伴，”奥巴马表示，“在直接帮助伊拉克政府的问题上，我的建议是我们等一等，以评估伊拉克当前的政府动荡在接下来两星期的发展。”
 It was important to make sure that any additional financial aid to Iraq was “effectively spent”, he said.
 他表示，有必要确保对伊拉克的任何进一步财政援助得到“有效支出”。
 The president said the ceasefire in Syria was “very fragile and may be breaking down”, in part because of attacks by the Assad regime.
 美国总统表示，叙利亚的停火“非常脆弱，可能会破裂”，部分原因是阿萨德(Assad)政权在发起攻击。
 With speculation that the US would send more arms to rebels if the current peace talks collapse, Mr Obama said “the problem with any plan B that does not involve a political settlement is that it means more fighting, potentially for years”.
 外界猜测一旦当前的和平谈判破裂，美国会向叛军输送更多武器，奥巴马表示，“任何不包括政治和解的B计划的问题在于，它意味着更多的战斗，可能会持续数年。”
 Gulf leaders are worried that in the aftermath of the Iran deal, the US will not do enough to push back at what they see as Iranian ambitions for regional dominance.
 海湾地区国家领导人担忧，在伊朗核协议达成后，美国不会采取足够行动回击他们眼中伊朗主宰该地区的野心。
