Barack Obama has become the first sitting US president to confront the consequences of using an atomic bomb as he visited Hiroshima to remember its dead and demand a world free from nuclear weapons.
巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)访问广岛，纪念原子弹轰炸死难者，并要求打造一个没有核武器的世界。此举令他成为首位直面原子弹轰炸后果的在任美国总统。
With the skeleton of Hiroshima’s A-Bomb Dome in front of him, Mr Obama laid a wreath in memory of at least 80,000 people who died when the US became the first and only country to use an atomic bomb, on August 6 1945.
站在原爆纪念馆(A-Bomb Dome)的核爆遗址的架构前，奥巴马敬献了花圈，纪念1945年8月6日在核爆中死难的至少8万人。1945年8月6日，美国成为首个——也是唯一一个——使用原子弹的国家。
The US president made clear he was not apologising. Just ahead of his Hiroshima visit, addressing troops at a US Marine Corps base near Hiroshima — choreography intended to show strength as well as sorrow — he said the visit was an “opportunity to honour the memory of all who were lost in World War Two”.
这位美国总统明确表示他此举并非道歉。就在此次访问前，他在广岛附近的一个美国海军陆战队(US Marine Corps)基地向部队发表了讲话，这一姿态的用意除了展示悲伤，还为了宣示力量。在这次讲话中，他表示这次访问是“一次纪念二战所有死难者的机遇”。
“It’s a chance to pursue peace and security, a world where nuclear weapons would no longer be necessary. And it’s a testament to how even the most painful divides can be bridged,” he said.
Mr Obama’s visit is a powerful symbol of reconciliation between the US and Japan, former enemies who have became close allies. Opinion polls show an overwhelming majority of Japanese are pleased Mr Obama is visiting now, even without an apology, after US presidents avoided the city for 71 years.
奥巴马此次访问，是日美关系和好的强烈象征，这两个曾经的敌对国家如今已成亲密盟友。民意测验结果显示，即便奥巴马此行并未道歉，在美国总统71年回避广岛之后，奥巴马如今这次访问受到了绝大多数日本人的欢迎。
The visit also symbolises some of the frustrated ambitions of Mr Obama’s presidency. In the seven years since his landmark speech in Prague, where he said the US had a “moral responsibility” to rid the world of atomic weapons, Russia, China and others have modernised their atomic arms.
这次访问还是奥巴马总统任期中部分未竟理想的象征。自奥巴马在布拉格发表里程碑式的讲话七年来，俄罗斯、中国及其他国家都已实施了原子武器的现代化升级。在布拉格的那次讲话中，他曾表示，对于摆脱这个带有原子武器的世界，美国负有“道德责任”。
Mr Obama himself has presided over a $1tn upgrade to the US nuclear arsenal. Visiting Hiroshima is a chance to revive that moral mission from 2009 as his presidency draws to a close.
奥巴马自身也曾主持过对美国核武库1万亿美元的升级。对他来说，访问广岛是在其总统任期临近尾声之际，重提这一2009年提出的道德使命的机遇。
