Barack Obama will make a historic trip to Hiroshima in two weeks, becoming the first sitting president to visit one of the two Japanese cities devastated by atomic bombs dropped by the US during the second world war.
巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)将在两周后对广岛(Hiroshima)进行历史性访问，成为首位访问二战期间被美国投掷的原子弹摧毁的两个日本城市之一的美国现任总统。
The White House said Mr Obama would visit the southwestern Japanese city with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to “highlight his continued commitment to pursuing the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons”.
白宫表示，奥巴马将与安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)首相一起访问这个日本西南部城市，以“突显他继续致力于追求一个无核世界的和平与安全”。
For decades, a presidential visit has been thwarted by competing sensitivities over whether the US should apologise for the attack.
几十年来，美国总统的访问计划都因为围绕美国应不应该就当年投掷原子弹道歉的种种矛盾敏感问题而夭折。
Groups of Hiroshima citizens have called on successive US presidents to visit, but their apology demands meant such an act of reconciliation never took place. The US has long refused to apologise for an attack most US historians credit with foreshortening the war.
广岛市民团体一直呼吁美国历届总统到访，但他们的道歉要求意味着这种代表和解的举动至今没有发生。对于美国大多数历史学家认为缩短了战争的原子弹袭击，美国一直拒绝道歉。
When John Kerry became the first sitting US secretary of state to visit the site last month, he was careful not to bow, or lower his head — gestures that would have been appreciated in Japan but would have sparked criticism of the Obama administration at home.
当约翰•克里(John Kerry)上月成为首位访问原子弹轰炸遗址的美国现任国务卿时，他谨慎地没有弯腰，也没有低头——这些姿势在日本会得到赞赏，但将在美国引发针对奥巴马政府的批评。
Ben Rhodes, deputy White House national security adviser, said Mr Obama would “not revisit” the decision to drop the atomic bombs, but would “offer a forward-looking vision focused on our shared future”.
白宫副国家安全顾问本•罗兹(Ben Rhodes)表示，奥巴马将“不会重新探讨”当年投掷原子弹的决定，但会“提供一个聚焦于我们共同未来的前瞻性愿景”。
“I welcome Mr Obama’s visit from the bottom of my heart,” Mr Abe said. “The visit is a chance for the US and Japan to mourn those victims together.”
“我从心底里欢迎奥巴马到访，”安倍表示，“这次访问让美国和日本有机会一起哀悼那些受害者。”
Mr Kerry’s trip to Hiroshima, home to a memorial commemorating the estimated 90,000 killed after the bomb was dropped on 6 August 1945, marked a breakthrough in the political deadlock. The trip was warmly received in Japan and raised hopes of Mr Obama visiting during the May 26-27 G7 summit.
克里此前对广岛的访问（他到访的广岛和平纪念公园旨在纪念死于1945年8月6日投掷的原子弹的估计9万人）标志着政治僵局出现突破。克里此行受到日本方面的热情接待，并令人期待奥巴马可能借5月26-27日七国集团(G7)峰会之机亲自访问广岛。（编者注：上图为日本广岛和平纪念公园）
Jennifer Lind, a US-Japan expert at Dartmouth College, said the trip would be difficult for Republicans to criticise. Although party leaders have tried to portray Mr Obama as a serial apologist for US policies abroad, they support bolstering an ally in a region where China continues to flex its military muscles.
达特茅斯学院(Dartmouth College)美日关系专家珍妮弗•林德(Jennifer Lind)表示，奥巴马此行可能不会招致共和党方面的批评。虽然该党领导人试图把奥巴马描述为在海外一再为美国的政策道歉，但他们支持在一个中国继续在军事上“秀肌肉”的地区为美国的盟友撑腰。
“Conservatives also support a strong alliance with Japan, and Shinzo Abe is their guy fighting the good political fight to make Japan a more capable partner,” Ms Lind said. The campaign of Donald Trump, the Republican party’s presumptive presidential nominee, did not respond to requests for comment.
“保守派人士也支持美日保持牢固同盟关系，而安倍晋三正是他们不可多得的伙伴，他在政治上正确发力，使日本成为一个更加能干的合作伙伴，”林德表示。共和党总统竞选推定候选人唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)的竞选团队没有回复记者的置评请求。
