"Mr. President? The fate of Jon Snow is about to be revealed in the screening room."
“总统先生？雪诺的命运将在放映室揭晓。”
At the Game of Thrones premiere event in Hollywood on Sunday, showrunners David Benioff and Dan Weiss confirmed rumors that Barack Obama wanted—and will get—episodes of their ultra-secret show ahead of their debut on HBO.
17日在《权力的游戏》（第六季）好莱坞首映礼上，该剧制作人大卫·贝尼奥夫和丹·韦斯证实了一个传闻，即奥巴马想在这部高度保密的剧集在HBO台首播之前抢先一睹为快，而且他的愿望实现了。
During HBO's Facebook Live stream from the event's red carpet, interviewer Veronica Belmont asked the Emmy-winning team if they had any "ah-ha ... we've totally made it" moments coming into season 6.
在HBO台首映礼红毯的Facebook流媒体直播视频上，红毯主持人维罗妮卡·贝尔蒙特问这个获得艾美奖的创作团队做到第六季是否有过“啊哈，我们完全做到了”的时刻。
"I think, for both of us, finding out the President wanted advanced copies of the episodes was an 'ah-ha' moment," Weiss said. “That was a very strange moment."
韦斯说道：“对我们俩人来说，发现总统想要提前看《权力的游戏》是个'啊哈'时刻。那一刻有种非常古怪的感觉。”
And did they say yes?
那么他们答应了吗？
"Yes," Weiss replied. "He's the leader of the free world."
“是的，”韦斯答道，“他是自由世界（美国）的领导人嘛。”
Benioff added: "When the commander-in-chief says, 'I want to see advanced episodes,' what are you gonna do?"
贝尼奥夫补充说：“总司令发话了，'我想提前看到剧集，'那你能怎么做？”
HBO is remaining mum on the subject, but if Obama gets advanced copies, he's the only person outside of HBO to do so. In an unprecedented move, HBO decided not to send any screeners to journalists or industry insiders. The move was to maintain the secrecy of the show's season 6 storylines, which are expanding beyond the scope of author George R.R. Martin's novels for the first time.
HBO台对这一话题一直保持沉默，但是如果奥巴马能预先看到剧集，那么他将是HBO台以外唯一一个能这么做的人。这次HBO台决定不向记者或业内人士发放任何宣传带，这是史无前例的。此举的目的是对该剧第六季的故事情节保密，这是该剧首次不完全按照乔治·R·R·马丁的原著小说来编写剧本。
Last month, Thrones actor Liam Cunningham told Vulture that Obama gets advance copies of the show, though it wasn't clear at the time if he was referring to season 6. "Did you know he gets advance copies? POTUS. He gets DVD copies before we do. And we're in it!" the actor said.
上个月，《权力的游戏》演员利亚姆·坎宁安告诉《Vulture》杂志说，奥巴马得到了该剧的预览版DVD，尽管当时不清楚他指的是不是第六季。这名演员说：“你知道奥巴马拿到了预览版DVD吗？美国总统。他比我们还先拿到DVD。我们都知道的！”
Obama has previously said Thrones is one of his favorite shows. And he had apparently once expressed concern about the fate of the Night's Watch Lord Commander. As Thrones director David Nutter told EW last summer: "Three weeks ago, I was the in the company of the President of the United States. He turned to me, put his hand on my shoulder, and said, 'You didn't kill Jon Snow did you?'" Nutter said he replied: "Jon Snow is deader than dead."
奥巴马先前提过《权力的游戏》是他最喜欢的电视节目之一。而且他显然对守夜人总司令的命运表达过担忧。《权力的游戏》导演戴维·纳特去年夏天告诉《娱乐周刊》说：“三个星期前，我正和美国总统在一起。他把脸转向我，将手放在我肩上，说：'你们没把雪诺弄死，对吧？'”纳特说他当时回答道：“雪诺已经死得透透的了。”
If Donald Trump gets elected president this fall, the Thrones team might not give him the same coveted access. In a New York Times profile of Thrones star Peter Dinklage this weekend, columnist Maureen Dowd said Weiss had a dim view of the Republican frontrunner: "Weiss ... says Trump reminds him of Hodor, a gigantic dimwit who answers every question with one word: his name."
如果唐纳德·特朗普今秋当选总统，《权力的游戏》团队也许就不会给他令人垂涎的同等待遇。在《纽约时报》本周末对该剧演员彼特·丁拉基的人物专访中，专栏作家陶曼玲写道，韦斯看不上这个共和党总统候选人。“韦斯说特朗普让他想起《权力的游戏》中弱智的大个子阿多，无论谁问他什么问题，他都只会答一个词，那就是他的名字阿多。”
For the rest of the world, Thrones returns April 24.
对世界上其他人而言，《权力的游戏》将在4月24日归来。
