Tom McCarthy’s “Spotlight,” a newspaper drama about the Catholic Church cover-up of sexual abuse by priests, snatched top honors at the 88th Academy Awards on Sunday, even as Leonardo DiCaprio won the best actor prize, his first Oscar, for “The Revenant” and Alejandro G. Iñárritu was named best director for the same film.
洛杉矶――汤姆·麦卡锡(Tom McCarthy)的《聚焦》(Spotlight)是一部新闻情节剧，讲述天主教会掩护许多神父的性侵行为，周日它在第88届奥斯卡奖上获得了诸多最高荣誉，此外莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥(Leonardo DiCaprio)凭借《荒野猎人》(The Revenant)中的表现，首次获得最佳演员奖，该片导演亚历桑德罗·G·伊纳里多(Alejandro G. Iñárritu)获得最佳导演奖。
Michael Sugar, a “Spotlight” producer, said he hoped the win would “resonate all the way to the Vatican.” He added, “Pope Francis, it’s time to protect the children.”
《聚焦》制片迈克尔·舒格(Michael Sugar)说，希望该片获奖可以“引起梵蒂冈的反应”。他又补充，“方济各教皇(Pope Francis)，现在是时候保护孩子们了。”
It was one of several causes promoted during the night at a ceremony that became a raucous diversity lesson under the guidance of the host, Chris Rock.
在主持人克里斯·洛克(Chris Rock)的主导下，当晚的颁奖礼成了关于多样化的喧嚣一课，舒格的发言也是其中的一部分。
Mr. Sugar spoke while accepting an award that to many had seemed pointed toward “The Revenant.”
舒格在做获奖致辞时说了这番话，不少人认为这个奖项本应属于《荒野猎人》。
The split in top prizes capped a chaotic year in which “Spotlight,” seen as a front-runner after its debut in a string of September festivals, watched competitors win key awards from the producers guild, the directors guild and the British film academy.
最高奖项的归属为这个喧嚣的年份一锤定音，《聚焦》自从去年九月在一系列电影节上映后就一直领跑，却只能看着竞争对手们获得制片人工会、导演工会和英国电影学院的关键奖项。
But voters from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences embraced the confusion, honoring “Spotlight” as the best picture, while spreading its acting awards among four films. Brie Larson was named best actress for “Room”; Alicia Vikander was named best supporting actress for “The Danish Girl”; and Mark Rylance was best supporting actor for “Bridge of Spies.”
但是电影艺术与科学学院的投票者们也同样感染了这种困惑，它将最佳影片奖授予《聚焦》，同时将最佳表演奖分授四部影片。布丽·拉森(Brie Larson)凭借《房间》(Room)获得最佳女主角奖，艾丽西亚·维坎德(Alicia Vikander)凭借《丹麦女孩》(The Danish Girl)获得最佳女配角奖，马克·里朗斯(Mark Rylance)凭《间谍之桥》(Bridge of Spies)获得最佳男配角奖。
Mr. DiCaprio, who had long been considered a lock for his performance as Hugh Glass, a real-life frontiersman left for dead, in “The Revenant,” seemed to be the main event, however.
迪卡普里奥在《荒野猎人》中饰演休·格拉斯(Hugh Glass)，这是一个现实生活中存在的拓荒者，长期以来，凭借他的表演，他被视为锁定了这一奖项，他领奖时仿佛是该颁奖礼最重要的环节。
“Making ‘The Revenant’ was about man’s relationship to the natural world,” Mr. DiCaprio said, adding a political theme that was matched, if not one-upped, by others as the night moved on.
“《荒野猎人》讲的是一个男人与自然世界之间的关系，”迪卡普里奥说道，并且还补充了一个就算未能更胜一筹，但却也同当晚其他话题相称的政治观点。
“Climate change is real, it is happening right now,” Mr. DiCaprio said.
“全球气候变暖是真实的，它现在正在发生，”迪卡普里奥说。
He also paid tribute to Mr. Iñárritu, who in turn played a diversity theme that dominated the night.
他还向导演伊纳里多致敬，伊纳里多也是今晚多样化主题的一部分。
What an opportunity, he said, to “make sure for once and forever that the color of the skin become as irrelevant as the length of our hair,” said Mr. Iñárritu, who is from Mexico.
伊纳里多在墨西哥发言说，这是一个很好的机会，“从此确保人们的肤色和头发的长度一样无关紧要。”
While Hollywood may have owed Mr. DiCaprio one after four prior acting nominations, including those for “The Aviator” and “The Wolf of Wall Street,” it apparently figured his prize and the directing award for Mr. Iñárritu were enough.
此前好莱坞或许已经欠了迪卡普里奥四个最佳表演奖，包括他在影片《飞行家》(The Aviator)与《华尔街之狼》(The Wolf of Wall Street)中的表现，这一次，似乎授予他最佳男主角奖，并授予伊纳里多最佳导演奖已经足够。
A best picture trophy for “The Revenant” would have made Mr. Iñárritu, whose “Birdman” was best picture last year, the first director in Oscar history to direct back-to-back winners. In fact, he was only the third, after John Ford and Joseph L. Mankiewicz, to win consecutive directing awards.
去年，伊纳里多的《鸟人》(Birdman)就获得了最佳影片奖，如果《荒野猎人》再次获得最佳电影奖，将会令伊纳里多成为奥斯卡历史上第一个蝉联最佳影片奖的导演。事实上，他是第三个连续获得最佳导演奖的人，前两位是约翰·福特(John Ford)与约瑟夫·L·曼凯维奇(Joseph L. Mankiewicz)。
Ms. Larson, as was widely expected, won the best actress award, her first Oscar, for “Room.” Her performance as a mother kept captive with her young son by a sexual predator was extraordinary, in that much of it was confined to a tiny room.
拉森凭借《房间》一片，众望所归地首次获得最佳女主角奖。她在片中饰演一个与年幼的儿子被性侵者绑架的母亲，主要戏份都发生在一个狭小的房间，她的演出非常精彩。
The earlier awards had gone to a scattershot group of films that was dominated by a run of six craft awards for the brutal action fable “Mad Max: Fury Road.”
更早时颁发的奖项被授予多部电影，其中残暴的动作寓言片《疯狂的麦克斯4：狂暴之路》(Mad Max: Fury Road)获得六个技术奖项。
That had left only one early Oscar, for cinematography, to “The Revenant,” a supposed front-runner. Other winners included “The Danish Girl,” “The Big Short,” “Bridge of Spies,” “Ex Machina” and “Inside Out.”
在较早颁发的奖项中，《荒野猎人》只获得一项最佳摄影奖，它被视为该奖项的领跑者。其他获奖影片还包括《丹麦女孩》、《大空头》(The Big Short)、《间谍之桥》、《机械姬》(Ex Machina)和《头脑特工队》(Inside Out)。
Until the surprising finish, it seemed as if little attention would be paid to the movies. The limelight, at least in the early hours, was squarely on Mr. Rock and prickly questions of race in Hollywood.
直到令人惊讶的最后结尾，颁奖礼都没有对电影表现出太多重视。至少是在一开始，众人的目光全都集中在洛克身上，以及他对好莱坞的种族问题的辛辣提问上。
“If they nominated hosts, I wouldn’t even get the job,” Mr. Rock snapped as the show opened.
“如果他们给主持人也提名，那我就得不到这份工作了，”洛克用这样一句话给颁奖礼开了场。
In a politically contentious year, Mr. Rock, the evening’s host, took the only safe course: He unloaded on everyone.
今年是政治上非常有争议的一年，主持人洛克采取了安全的策略，他讽刺每一个人。
“Jada boycotting the Oscars is like me boycotting Rihanna’s panties,” Mr. Rock said, “I wasn’t invited!”
“贾达抵制奥斯卡就像我抵制跟蕾哈娜(Rihanna)上床一样，”洛克说，“反正我也没接到邀请！”
It was a jab at Jada Pinkett Smith, and at those who had called for a boycott, because the Oscar acting nominees, for the second consecutive year, were all white.
他讽刺的是贾达·萍克特·史密斯(Jada Pinkett Smith)，以及其他呼吁抵制奥斯卡的人，因为本届奥斯卡奖所有表演奖项的提名者和去年一样，都是白人。
In the end, Mr. Rock spent virtually the whole monologue on the subject of diversity, mostly spoofing it but occasionally adding more biting commentary, as when he quipped that the annual “In Memoriam” tribute would honor black people who were “shot by the cops on their way to the movies.”
最后，洛克就多样化问题发表了长篇大论，主要是讽刺，偶尔也有辛辣的评论，比如他嘲讽说，年度的“纪念”奖项应该奖给那些“在看电影路上被警察开枪打死”的黑人们。
Moving on to the awards, he said, “You want diversity? We got diversity. Please welcome Emily Blunt and somebody whiter, Charlize Theron,” and the two actresses appeared to present the night’s first award, for best original screenplay.
至于奥斯卡奖，他说，“你们想要多样化？我们有多样化。有请艾米丽·布朗特(Emily Blunt)和更白的查理兹·塞隆(Charlize Theron)，”两位女演员上台后，颁发了当晚的第一个奖项：最佳原创剧本。
Thirty minutes into the show, Mr. Rock was still hitting the diversity theme, hard. He introduced a skit that had Whoopi Goldberg and others trying to edge their way into acting roles reserved for whites. Ms. Goldberg swished a mop next to Jennifer Lawrence in a scene supposedly from “Joy.” In another spoof, Jeff Daniels declined to spend $2,500 to save a stranded black astronaut, played by Mr. Rock, on Mars, in a takeoff on “The Martian.”
颁奖礼进行到第30分钟，洛克仍然在猛烈抨击缺乏多样性这个问题。他推出一个讽刺小品，让乌比·哥德堡(Whoopi Goldberg)和其他人拼命挤进那些只为白人预留的角色中去。哥德堡站在詹妮弗·劳伦斯(Jennifer Lawrence)旁边，甩着拖把，好像是《奋斗的乔伊》(Joy)里的一幕。在另一个讽刺小品里，杰夫·丹尼尔斯(Jeff Daniels)拒绝付2500美元拯救一个由洛克饰演的滞留火星的黑人宇航员，这一幕是从《火星救援》里来的。
Ms. Goldberg was back later to introduce a video recap of the Governors Awards, which went to Meryl Streep, Debbie Reynolds, and Spike Lee. “It’s easier to be president of the United States as a black person than be head of a studio,” Mr. Lee had said then. Cheryl Boone Isaacs, the academy’s president, immediately followed Ms. Goldberg with a diversity lecture.
哥德堡后来介绍了一段来自理事会奖(Governors Awards)的剪辑录像，这个奖授予了梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)、黛比·雷诺兹(Debbie Reynolds)和斯派克·李(Spike Lee)。“黑人要当上制片公司老大，比当美国总统还难，”李说。学院主席谢丽尔·布恩·艾萨克斯(Cheryl Boone Isaacs)紧接哥德堡之后，做了一番关于多样化的言说。
“It’s not enough to just listen and agree,” Ms. Isaacs said. “We must take action.”
“光是听着表示赞同还不够，”艾萨克斯说，“我们必须采取行动。”
A question that would not be answered until Monday is whether the “In Memoriam” sequence would keep its traditional spot as a ratings high-point of the evening. Those remembered included Jerry Weintraub, Maureen O’Hara, Omar Sharif, David Bowie, Leonard Nimoy and Wes Craven.
有个问题直到星期一都未能揭晓，那就是“纪念”环节是否会和往常一样，成为整晚的高潮。此次纪念的人包括杰瑞·温特劳布(Jerry Weintraub)、玛琳·奥哈拉(Maureen O’Hara)、奥玛·沙里夫(Omar Sharif)、大卫·鲍伊(David Bowie)、伦纳德·尼莫伊(Leonard Nimoy)和韦斯·克雷文(Wes Craven)。
For the most part, they were as white as the evening’s presenters were black. At the same time, they represented the academy’s past, while Ms. Isaacs promised that new processes and rules would create a different, more inclusive future.
他们都是白人，而今晚的表演者们大都是黑人。与此同时，他们代表了奥斯卡学院的过去，正如艾萨克斯承诺的，新的流程和规则将会作出改变，带来更加兼容并蓄的未来。
As the evening wore on, the causes began to stack up. Vice President Joseph R. Biden added yet another when he showed to introduce Lady Gaga’s performance of “Til It Happens to You,” from “The Hunting Ground,” a documentary about campus sexual assault. “I really mean this, take the pledge,” Mr. Biden urged, as he begged attention for that issue, as Mr. McCarthy, of “Spotlight,” and Mr. McKay, of “The Big Short,” had urged attention for theirs.
当晚随着颁奖的继续进行，话题还在走向严肃。副总统约瑟夫·R·拜登(President Joseph R. Biden)也做出了贡献，他登台介绍Lady Gaga表演关于校园性侵的纪录片《狩猎场》(The Hunting Ground)中的歌曲《直到这在你身上发生》(Til It Happens to You)。“我是认真的，抓住机会，”拜登请人们关注这个话题，此外《聚焦》中的麦卡锡先生与《大空头》中的麦凯(McKay)先生也呼吁人们关注自己的影片中所提出的问题。
The original song Oscar went instead to “Writing’s on the Wall” from “Spectre.” It wasn’t a political award, but Sam Smith, one of the composers, dedicated his Oscar to the L.G.B.T. communities around the world.
奥斯卡最佳原创歌曲由《007：幽灵党》(Spectre)中的歌曲《墙上的字迹》(Writing’s on the Wall)获得，这并不是一个政治化的奖项，但这首歌作曲者之一的山姆·史密斯(Sam Smith)把自己的奥斯卡奖献给全世界的L.G.B.T群体。
Ms. Vikander’s win, as best supporting actress for “The Danish Girl,” was the night’s first acting award. Ms. Vikander, a Swede who lives in London, underscored the international quality of the nominated actors. For only the second time since the 1960s, fully half of the 20 acting nominees were not just white, but from countries that belong to the Commonwealth.
维坎德凭《丹麦女孩》中饰演的角色获得了最佳女配角奖，这是当晚颁发的第一个表演类奖项。维坎德是居住在伦敦的瑞典人，这强调了提名演员的国际化特征。奥斯卡奖的最佳表演奖提名中，全部获得提名的20名演员不仅全是白人，而且有整整一半都来自英联邦，自从60年代以来，这还是第二次。
Mr. Rylance won the best supporting actor for “Bridge of Spies.” He, too, hails from London, but played a Soviet spy — that ethnic twist was a tribute to the craft of those Commonwealth players, who spoke more about the challenges of performance than the politics of casting. “It’s a wonderful time to be an actor, thank you,” said Mr. Rylance.
里朗斯凭《间谍之桥》中的表演获得了最佳男配角奖。他也从伦敦做了发言，里朗斯在片中饰演一个苏联间谍，擅长民族性格上的扭转是英国演员的特征之一，但他更热衷谈论表演上的挑战，而不是选角政治方面的问题。他说，“这是身为演员的好时代，谢谢。” 
The best foreign language film, “Son of Saul,” a Holocaust film from Hungary. The win, widely expected, was another reminder that the movie culture is international, and the woes it examines are larger, even, than racial concerns in the United States.
最佳外语片获得者是反映匈牙利纳粹大屠杀的《索尔之子》(Son of Saul)。它的获奖也是众望所归，提醒人们电影文化属于整个世界，它所表达的哀伤甚至大于美国的种族忧患。
Six early wins for “Mad Max: Fury Road” — for costume design, production design, editing, sound editing, sound mixing and makeup and hairstyling — soon signaled that the evening would be an uphill climb for “The Revenant.” That film had been in the running for those same Oscars. But the string of wins brought tribute after tribute not for Mr. Iñárritu, but for George Miller, the seasoned filmmaker behind the brutal, kinetic “Mad Max” series.
在较早时候，《疯狂麦克斯4：狂暴之路》获得服装设计、制作设计、剪辑、声音剪辑、混音和化妆与发型六项大奖，这表明《荒野猎人》在今晚经历了一个先苦后甜的历程，因为《荒野猎人》也同时获得了这些提名。但是这一串荣誉没有属于伊纳里多，而是给了残暴、活跃的《疯狂麦克斯》系列背后的资深电影人乔治·米勒(George Miller)。
In one of the night’s oddest moments, Pixar — through its characters Woody and Buzz Lightyear from the “Toy Story” trilogy — presented itself in a best animated feature Oscar for “Inside Out.” The film, about moody characters in a girl’s brain, was filled with colors — red, blue, yellow, green and purple — but not black.
在整晚最奇怪的一个时刻之一，皮克斯公司――通过《玩具总动员》(Toy Story)三部曲中的伍迪牛仔和巴斯光年在最佳动画片环节为自己公司的《头脑总动员》颁奖。这部影片是以一个女孩头脑中的情绪为主人公，里面充满色彩——红、蓝、黄、绿、紫——但是仍然没有黑色。
In the best documentary feature category, “Amy,” about the singer Amy Winehouse, who died of substance abuse, took the award. It was a rarity among documentaries — a popular film that drew a substantial audience at the box-office for A24, and sold well in home markets. The film had edged aside “What Happened, Miss Simone?” and “Winter on Fire: Ukraine’s Fight for Freedom,” both of which had lavish campaigns from their backer, Netflix.
最佳纪录片《艾米》(Amy)是关于因滥用药物去世的歌手艾米·怀恩豪斯(Amy Winehouse)的故事。它在获得最佳纪录片提名的影片中是个异数——它来自A24公司，颇受欢迎，票房不俗，在家庭影院市场也销量颇高。这部影片在同《发生什么了，西蒙妮小姐？》(What Happened, Miss Simone)和《凛冬烈火：乌克兰为自由而战》(Winter on Fire: Ukraine’s Fight for Freedom)的角逐中险胜，后两部影片都由其出品公司Netflix做过大肆宣传。
