Jada Pinkett Smith has announced that she will not be attending or watching the 2016 Academy Awards.
贾达·萍克特·史密斯声明拒绝参加或观看2016奥斯卡颁奖礼。
In a video posted to Facebook Monday morning, Martin Luther King Jr. Day, the actress posed some powerful, thoughtful questions.
美籍黑人女演员贾达·萍克特·史密斯于当地时间1月18日一早在Facebook发布一则视频。面对镜头，她频频发问，颇有些振聋发聩的味道。巧的是，那天正好是马丁·路德·金纪念日。
"Is it time that people of color recognize how much power, influence, that we have amassed, that we no longer need to ask to be invited anywhere?" she said in the video. "Maybe it's time that we recognize that if we love and respect and acknowledge ourselves in the way in which we are asking others to do, that that is the place of true power."
她在视频中说：“有色人种是否已经意识到自己手中的力量和影响力了呢？有色人种是否已经意识到我们去任何地方都无需再等待别人邀请？或许，是时候我们爱自己、尊敬自己、认可自己，就像我们要求别人对待我们的那样，这才是真正力量所在。”
Pinkett Smith called for change, saying that "it's our responsibility now" to make the difference.
萍克特·史密斯呼吁一种改变，她说做出改变是“我们当前的责任”。
"Begging for acknowledgement, or even asking, diminishes dignity and diminishes power. And we are a dignified people and we are powerful," she said. "Let's do us, differently."
“乞求、甚至是请求别人的认同都会贬低尊严，削弱力量。我们有尊严，我们也有力量。让我们就做自己，和别人不一样的自己。”
Fellow member of Hollywood Spike Lee also addressed the #OscarsSoWhite controversy this morning, saying that he, too, will be skipping the Awards show this year.
当天上午，好莱坞黑人导演斯派克·李也在Facebook上就“白人的奥斯卡”发表声明，称不会关注今年的奥斯卡颁奖礼。
In an Instagram post, the director condemned Hollywood execs for not using their power to bring more stories about people of color to the big screen.
斯派克·李还发布了一条Instagram谴责好莱坞高层未能善用自己的权力，让更多有色人种的故事走向大银幕。
"The truth is we ain't in those rooms and until minorities are, the Oscar nominees will remain lilly (sic) white," he wrote.
他写道：“事实是，我们还未走进奥斯卡殿堂。而在此之前，奥斯卡提名会一直只选择白人。”「注：李用“洁白的”（lily）一词形容白人，不过拼错了（lilly）。」
Following the backlash of yet another year of #OscarsSoWhite, Jada Pinkett Smith expressed her dismay on the awards' lack of diversity.
这已是奥斯卡奖第二年遭到“缺乏多样性”的质疑了。而史密斯本人在此前亦表达过不满。
The "Magic Mike XXL" actress, 44, sent out a series of tweets over the weekend.
上周末，这位参演了《魔力麦克2》的44岁女演员连着发了好几条推特。
"At the Oscars ... people of color are always welcomed to give out awards ... even entertain, but we are rarely recognized for our artistic accomplishments," she wrote, adding, "Should people of color refrain from participating all together?"
她写道：“奥斯卡颁奖礼喜欢选择有色人种作为颁奖嘉宾，甚至是作为表演嘉宾，而我们的艺术成就却鲜获认可。有色人种是不是应当联合起来拒绝参加奥斯卡？”
She continued, "People can only treat us in the way in which we allow. With much respect in the midst of deep disappointment."
“别人只能用我们能接受的方式对待我们。但恕我直言，我对现实很失望。”
Pinkett Smith isn't alone in her thinking. Following the nomination announcement last week, Rev. Al Sharpton slammed the Academy for overlooking black actors.
这么想的并不只是萍克特·史密斯一人。上周奥斯卡提名公布后，阿尔·夏普顿也谴责奥斯卡忽视了黑人演员。
"Yet again, deserving black actors and directors were ignored by the Academy -- which reinforces the fact that there are few, if any, blacks with real power in Hollywood," he said in a statement provided by the National Action Network. "Being left out of awards consideration is about more than just recognition for a job well-done; winning an Oscar has long-lasting cultural and economic impacts."
在国家行动网络提供的一项声明中，夏普顿说：“应当获得奥斯卡荣誉的黑人演员和导演再次被忽视了，这进一步证明好莱坞中有实权的黑人数量极少。被奥斯卡排除在外不只关乎影视事业评价——获得奥斯卡奖对文化、经济都有持久影响。”
This year, out of the 20 people nominated in the acting categories at the Oscars none are people of color. None.
今年，表演类别奖项提名的20人之中没有一个有色人种，连一个都没有。
Furthermore, in the nominated films that include non-white cast members, only white contributors have been recognized with nominations. One key exception is Alejandro González Iñárritu, who's up for Best Director for "The Revenant".
此外，在有非白人参演的被提名电影中，只有白人演员获得了提名。唯一的例外是亚利桑德罗·冈萨雷斯·伊纳里多，他凭借《还魂者》获得本届奥斯卡最佳导演提名。
