LOS ANGELES — Oscar voters showered “The Revenant” and “Mad Max: Fury Road” with honors on Thursday, including best picture nominations, but were less kind to some contenders and put forth, once again, an all-white field of acting nominees.
洛杉矶――星期四，奥斯卡奖投票者们把大量荣誉授予了《荒野猎人》(The Revenant)和《疯狂的麦克斯4：狂暴之路》(Mad Max: Fury Road)，包括最佳影片提名，但是对某些参赛者就不那么慷慨，而且再一次让表演奖项提名全部落入白人之手。
Six films joined “The Revenant” and “Fury Road” as nominees for Hollywood’s top prize: “Bridge of Spies,” “Spotlight,” “The Big Short” “The Martian,” “Brooklyn” and “Room.” The black-themed “Straight Outta Compton,” expected by handicappers to make the cut (10 nominees are allowed), was notably not among them, adding to the mono-racial nature of the selections from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
与《荒野猎人》和《疯狂的麦克斯4：狂暴之路》同获这一好莱坞最高荣誉提名的影片还有《间谍之桥》(Bridge of Spies)、《聚焦》(Spotlight)、《大空头》(The Big Short)、《火星救援》(The Martian)、《布鲁克林》(Brooklyn)和《房间》(Room)这六部影片。黑人题材的《冲出康普顿》(Straight Outta Compton)被一些博彩者看好（允许下注十项提名），却没有出现在最佳电影提名之中，颇为引人瞩目，这进一步显示出美国电影艺术与科学学院选择品味的单一种族本质。
Last year’s group at least had “Selma,” centered on the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
去年的最佳影片中至少还包括《塞尔玛》(Selma)，它讲述牧师小马丁·路德·金博士(Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr)的故事。
“The Revenant,” a frontier revenge tale directed by Alejandro G. Iárritu, drew 12 nominations in total — the most of any film — with Leonardo DiCaprio honored for his wounded trapper and Tom Hardy for his villainous supporting role. Additional nominations came in more technical categories like cinematography and sound mixing, an indication of especially broad support among all classes of voters. (One possible exception: The movie is very male centric.)
《荒野猎人》讲述一个开拓者的复仇故事，由亚历桑德罗·G·伊纳里多(Alejandro G. Iárritu)导演，共获得12项提名，是本次获得提名最多的电影，莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥(Leonardo Dicaprio)在其中饰演一个受伤的捕兽者，获得最佳男主演提名，汤姆·哈迪(Tom Hardy)饰演邪恶的配角，亦获得最佳男配角提名。该片获得的其他提名主要集中在技术类，诸如最佳摄影与最佳混音，这表明该片受到各层次投票者的广泛支持（只有一个可能的异议：该片是非常以男性为中心的）。
With 10 nominations, “Fury Road,” directed by George Miller, was the second-most-honored film, but most of its support came from technical areas, like film editing, costume design and makeup and hairstyling. Next came “The Martian,” with seven nods, although its director, Ridley Scott, was prominently snubbed.
“Spotlight” won attention in six categories, including nominations for its director, Tom McCarthy, and two of its supporting actors, Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams. The lesbian romance “Carol,” overlooked for best picture, also managed to come up with six nominations, as did “Bridge of Spies,” a best picture nominee directed by Steven Spielberg.
《聚焦》获得六项提名，其导演汤姆·麦卡锡(Tom McCarthy)获得最佳导演提名，两位配角马克·鲁弗洛(Mark Ruffalo)和瑞秋·麦克亚当斯(Rachel McAdams)也分获提名。女同性恋题材的爱情电影《卡罗尔》(Carol)获得6项提名，但无缘最佳影片。史蒂芬·斯皮尔伯特(Steven Spielberg)执导的《间谍之桥》也获得六项提名，其中包括最佳影片提名。
Mr. Spielberg, though, did not receive a directing nomination. In addition to Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Iárritu and Mr. Miller, rounding out the race for best director are Adam McKay (“The Big Short,” five nominations in total) and, in a little-expected selection, Lenny Abrahamson (the kidnapping drama “Room,” four nominations total).
不过，斯皮尔伯格却没有获得最佳导演提名。获得该项荣誉的除了麦卡锡、伊纳里多和米勒之外，还包括《大空头》的导演亚当·麦凯(Adam McKay)，该片获得五项提名。此外，绑架题材影片《房间》(Room)的导演伦尼·阿伯拉罕森(Lenny Abrahamson)爆冷获得提名，该片共获得四项提名。
For the most part, Oscar voters refused to bow in the direction of popular movies. “Furious 7,” “Jurassic World” and “Avengers: Age of Ultron” got nothing, even in the work-a-day categories. And “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” which picked up five nominations in craft categories, came up far short of the original “Star Wars,” which was a best picture nominee in 1978.
大多数奥斯卡奖的投票者们并不青睐大众流行电影。《速度与激情7》(Furious 7)、《侏罗纪世界》(Jurassic World)与《复仇者：奥创纪元》(Avengers: Age of Ultron)都一无所获，就连家喻户晓的影片也是如此。《星球大战：原力觉醒》(Star Wars: The Force Awakens)在制作类别获得五项提名，远比1978年最早的《星球大战》影片要少，当年它还曾获得最佳影片提名。
The acting groups were peppered with familiar faces. As expected, Cate Blanchett came away with her sixth nomination, for “Carol.” Jennifer Lawrence, now a four-time nominee, this time for “Joy,” joined Ms. Blanchett in the category. Also selected were Brie Larson from “Room,” Charlotte Rampling from the indie drama “45 Years” and Saoirse Ronan from “Brooklyn.”
最佳演员奖项里还是一些熟面孔。如人们所料，凯特·布兰切特(Cate Blanchett)凭借她在《卡罗尔》(Carol)中的表演，第六次获得提名。詹妮弗·劳伦斯(Jennifer Lawrence)凭她在《奋斗的乔伊》(Joy)中的表现第四次获得提名。当选的还有《房间》的女主角布丽·拉尔森、独立电影《45周年》的女主演夏洛特·兰普林(Charlotte Rampling)和《布鲁克林》的女主演西尔莎·罗南(Saoirse Ronan)。
Mr. DiCaprio, picking up his fifth acting nomination, will be competing against the reigning best actor winner, Eddie Redmayne, who picked up a nod for “The Danish Girl.” Voters also backed Matt Damon (“The Martian”), Bryan Cranston (“Trumbo”) and Michael Fassbender (“Steve Jobs”).
迪卡普里奥第五次获得最佳男主角奖提名，将与上届最佳男主演得主埃迪·雷德梅恩(Eddie Redmayne)竞争，雷德梅恩此次凭《丹麦女孩》(The Danish Girl)获得提名。投票者们还支持主演《火星救援》的马特·达蒙(Matt Damon)、主演《特朗勃》(Trumbo)的布莱恩·科兰斯顿(Bryan Cranston)和主演《乔布斯》(Steve Jobs)的迈克尔·法斯宾德(Michael Fassbender)。
Although Mr. Scott received the coldest shoulder, there were other slights. Aaron Sorkin was not among the adapted screenplay nominees for “Steve Jobs,” even though he took the screenwriting prize at the Golden Globes on Sunday. Receiving nothing were “Concussion,” starring Will Smith; “Beasts of No Nation,” featuring Idris Elba; and “Black Mass,” with Johnny Depp.
除了斯科特导演之外，还有其他人也遭到冷遇。亚伦·索金(Aaron Sorkin)未能凭借《乔布斯》获得最佳改编剧本奖提名，尽管他于周日获得金球奖最佳编剧奖。威尔·史密斯(Will Smith)主演的《震荡效应》(Concussion)、伊德里斯·艾尔巴(Idris Elba)主演的《无境之兽》(Beasts of No Nation)与约翰尼·德普(Johnny Depp)主演的《黑色弥撒》(Black Mass)都一无所获。
The racially diverse “Creed,” directed by Ryan Coogler, was shut out, except for a nomination for its (white) war-horse supporting actor, Sylvester Stallone.
多种族演员参演的《奎迪》(Creed)由瑞恩·库格勒(Ryan Coogler)执导，同样在各项提名中遇冷，只有影坛老兵（白人）西尔维斯特·史泰龙(Sylvester Stallone)为该片赢得最佳男配角一项提名。
The documentary category also brought two prominent rebukes, as two widely viewed investigative films, Alex Gibney’s “Going Clear,” which focused on Scientology, and Kirby Dick’s “The Hunting Ground,” about college rapes, were left out. Instead, nominations went to “Amy,” about the rise and fall of the singer Amy Winehouse; “Cartel Land,” set in Mexico; “The Look of Silence,” about genocide in Indonesia; and a pair of heavily campaigned Netflix films, “What Happened, Miss Simone?” and “Winter on Fire: Ukraine’s Fight for Freedom.”
纪录片类别中同样有两项主要争议，两部观者甚多的调查纪录片均未能获得提名，它们是亚历克斯·吉布尼(Alex Gibney)关注山达基教的《拨开迷雾》(Going Clear)与科比·迪克(Kirby Dick)关注校园强奸问题的《猎场》(The Hunting Ground)。提名获得者包括讲述歌手艾米·怀恩豪斯(Amy Winehouse)人生起伏的《艾米》(Amy)、在墨西哥拍摄的《贩毒之地》(Cartel Land)、关注印尼大屠杀问题的《沉默之像》(The Look of Silence)；以及两部在Netflix大肆宣传的影片《发生什么了，西蒙妮小姐？》(What Happened, Miss Simone?)和《凛冬烈火：乌克兰为自由而战》(Winter on Fire: Ukraine’s Fight for Freedom)。
As documentaries go, “Amy” has done well at the box office, taking in about $8.4 million in the United States and Canada. Speaking from his home in London, Asif Kapadia, who directed the film, said Ms. Winehouse’s drug addiction and death seemed to mirror problems in many viewers’ lives. “It started off being a film about Amy, and ended up being a film about ourselves,” Mr. Kapadia said.
在纪录片类别中，《艾米》在票房方面表现不俗，在美国和加拿大获得了840万美元收入。导演阿斯弗·卡帕迪尔(Asif Kapadia)在伦敦家中表示，怀恩豪斯女士的毒瘾与死亡似乎映照出了许多观众生活中的问题。“一开始好像是一部关于艾米的电影，最后却成了一部关于我们自身的电影，”卡帕迪尔说。
The Academy, stung by fierce criticism of its failure to nominate any black actors and directors last year, also seemed to ignore a plea from its own president, Cheryl Boone Isaacs, for increased diversity. In November, at the Academy’s noncompetitive Governors Awards, Ms. Isaacs introduced a plan to increase diversity and implored the A-list attendees to pay attention to “this critically important initiative.”
电影学院去年未曾把提名授予任何黑人男演员与导演，因此受到激烈抨击，就连学院主席谢丽尔·布恩·艾萨克斯(Cheryl Boone Isaacs)对多样化的呼吁似乎也被完全无视。11月，在电影学院的非竞赛奖项理事会奖(Governors Awards)的颁奖礼上，艾萨克斯介绍了一项旨在增进多样性的方案，请求有影响力的与会人士注意“这项极为重要的举措”。
Academy officials, who declined to comment on the lack of diversity, had tried to squarely face their racial issues by inviting Chris Rock to return as host for this year’s ceremony, which will be broadcast by ABC on Feb. 28. When he hosted the telecast in 2005, he repeatedly tweaked the film establishment for its homogeneity.
电影学院的管理者们拒绝就缺乏多样性问题发表评论，试图邀请克里斯·洛克(Chris Rock)回来主持今年的颁奖礼，以此平衡种族问题。今年的颁奖礼将于2月28日在ABC电视台直播。洛克曾在2005年主持过颁奖礼，主持过程中一再抨击电影界中的同质性。
Under the Academy’s complex counting method, an eight-film best picture spread (for the second year), indicates that opinion was fairly fragmented. In 2009, the Academy increased the number of films nominated in the best picture category to 10 from five. Two years later, the rules were again changed, to permit a variable number of nominees, between five and 10, depending on voter support.
根据电影学院复杂的计票方式，8部最佳电影的分布表明投票者的意见非常分散（去年也是如此）。2009年，电影学院把最佳电影提名的数量从5部增加到10部。两年后，规则又做出改变，提名影片的数量可以在5部到10部之间变动，由投票者们决定。
“Straight Outta Compton” was not shut out completely. Alan Wenkus and S. Leigh Savidge, who conceived the film, were nominated as part of a screenwriting team in the original screenplay category, which also saw “Inside Out,” “Spotlight,” “Bridge of Spies” and the futuristic “Ex Machina” honored. Mr. Wenkus said he was disappointed to see others from “Straight Outta Compton” overlooked.
《冲出康普顿》并未彻底失败。该片编剧艾伦·温库(Alan Wenkus)与S·雷·萨维治(S. Leigh Savidge)代表整个编剧团队，获得最佳原创剧本提名，同获该项提名的还有《头脑特工队》(Inside Out)、《聚焦》、《间谍之桥》和未来主义的《机械姬》(Ex Machina)。温库说，《冲出康普顿》未能获得其他提名，令他很是失望。
“Without those actors, those incredible young actors, and Gary Gray drawing out those characters on screen, this would not be the movie it is,” Mr. Wenkus said.
“没有那些演员，那些了不起的年轻演员们，还有把这些人物搬上银幕的导演加里·格雷(Gary Gray)，这部电影不会是这个样子，”温库说。
In the best animated film category, “Anomalisa,” a bit of stop-motion puppetry from Charlie Kaufman and Duke Johnson, for instance, overcame head-scratching by some to take its place alongside the more conventionally built “Inside Out,” “When Marnie Was There,” “Boy and the World” and “Shaun the Sheep Movie.”
在最佳动画类别，比如由查理·考夫曼(Charlie Kaufman)和杜克·约翰逊(Duke Johnson)导演的木偶定格动画《失常》(Anomalisa)，尽管令有些人费解，还是获得提名，此外还有相对较为传统的《头脑特工队》、《记忆中的玛妮》(When Marnie Was There)、《男孩和世界》(Boy and the World)，以及《小羊肖恩》(Shaun the Sheep Movie)。
Among studios, 20th Century Fox had a very good morning, with three films in its stable — “The Revenant,” “Brooklyn” and “The Martian” — receiving best picture nominations. But small, relatively new film companies will also be shouldering the work and expense of ongoing Oscar campaigns. Open Road Films is backing “Spotlight,” for instance, while Bleecker Street released “Trumbo.”
在各大制片公司中，20世纪福克斯公司迎来了一个不错的早晨，它的三部重要影片《荒野猎人》、《布鲁克林》和《火星救援》都获得最佳影片提名。但是若干较小、较新的电影公司也将为奥斯卡奖宣传展开工作，大下重本。比如拍出了《聚焦》的Open Road电影公司和拍出《特朗勃》的Bleecker Street公司。
The small A24 Films, which released “Room,” “Amy” and “Ex Machina,” will be backing nominees in seven categories. A groggy Ms. Larson, reached by phone in Australia, where she is filming “Kong: Skull Island,” said she was ready and willing to join the next wave of Oscar glad-handing, although she didn’t know quite what form that would take. “I’m completely ignorant, I’ve never done this before,” she said.
小公司A24影业推出了《房间》、《艾米》和《机械姬》，在七个提名类别内都有收获。头晕目眩的拉森正在澳大利亚拍摄《金刚：骷髅岛》(Kong: Skull Island)，她在电话采访中说，自己已经准备好参加下一波的奥斯卡奖活动，尽管她还不知道到底都是些什么活动，需要自己做什么。“我什么都不知道，我以前从来没做过这样的事，”她说。
After three years of entrusting its ceremony to the producers Neil Meron and Craig Zadan, who brought in Seth MacFarlane to sing about female on-screen nudity as host and Neil Patrick Harris to stand in his underwear, the Academy has turned to a new pair of telecast producers: Reginald Hudlin, a filmmaker whose raucous comedies include “House Party,” and David Hill, a producer with credits on “American Idol” and the 2011 World Series broadcast.
奥斯卡奖颁奖礼已经连续三年由尼尔·莫伦(Neil Meron)和克里格·扎丹(Craig Zadan)制作，他们曾让主持人塞思·麦克法兰(Seth MacFarlane)在颁奖礼上歌唱银幕上的裸体女性，也曾让尼尔·帕特里克·哈莉斯(Neil Patrick Harris)穿内衣站在台上，这一次，电影学院请来了两位新的电视制作人，他们是参与制作喧闹的喜剧《家庭聚会》(House Party)的电影人雷吉纳·哈德林(Reginald Hudlin)和参与制作《美国偶像》(American Idol)与2011棒球世界大赛(2011 World Series)转播的戴维·希尔(David Hill)。
Under pressure to lift ratings — the audience for the last year’s ceremony dropped nearly 15 percent, to around 36.6 million viewers, from 43 million in 2014 — the new producers decided to bring back Mr. Rock.
2014年的颁奖礼有4300万名观众观看，去年的颁奖礼只有大约3660万名观众观看，收视率降低了大约15%，两位新的制作人受到提升收视率的压力，决定请回洛克。
