It is often said this is a man's world.
人们总说，这是男性主宰的世界。
So perhaps it should be no surprise that the key to appearing confident, knowledgeable and inspirational is to stand like a man.
所以，女性要想表现出自信、睿智、励志的关键就在于用男性的姿态出现在公众面前的想法就不足为奇了。
Research shows that women are more likely to be viewed as leadership material when they adopt a typically male posture, with their feet planted shoulder-width apart.
研究表明，人们认为女性采用典型的男性站姿（双脚分开站立与肩同宽）时更具领导风范。
Expansive hand gestures add to the 'power pose'.
手势适当伸展可为“强势姿态”加分。
The University College London study found that small changes to a woman's stance can have a big effect on how she is perceived, even when what she wears and says stay the same.
伦敦大学学院研究发现，女性站姿的细微变化会大大影响其在别人心目中的形象，哪怕她的穿着和说话内容没有丝毫变化。
The researchers said: 'It seems the way people look when words are spoken influences the way people interpret these words.'
In the first of two experiments, the scientists filmed an actress delivering a short speech while standing in various different ways.
第一场实验中，科学家们拍摄了一位女演员以各式各样的站姿做简短演讲的视频。
Some 1,500 men and women watched the videos and then rated her on everything from attractiveness to how knowledgeable she appeared to be.
约1500名男性和女性观看了这个视频，并对视频中的女演员进行了从吸引力到学识表现力等各方面的“等级评定”。
In the second experiment, 500 volunteers watched videos of actors and actresses who adopted one of two poses.
第二场实验中，500名志愿者观看了由男、女演员分别以两种站姿之一录制的视频。
One was a power pose, in which their feet were wide apart and they gestured with their hands.
其中一种是强势型站姿——双脚分开站立，并配上一些手势。
The other was a more submissive stance, in which the actors swayed from side to side and kept their hands by their sides.
另外一种姿势则属于较温顺的姿态——演员们将双手放在身体两侧，在演讲的过程中左右摆动。
Overall, those who struck the power pose were judged more confident, convincing, knowledgeable, inspiring and leader-like.
总的来说，采用强势型站姿的人给人的感觉更加自信、有说服力、睿智、励志并更具领导人风范。
The volunteers also said they'd be more likely to vote for them in an election.
志愿者表示，选举中他们更倾向于投票支持这些人。
Co-researcher Richard Newman, of public speaking training company UK Body Talk, recommends standing still, with feet shoulder-with apart.
来自公共演讲培训公司UK Body Talk的共同研究人理查德•纽曼建议，双脚应分开站立与肩同宽，站立过程中避免身体乱晃。
Hands - and arms - extended, with the elbows away from the body.
手肘与身体分离，并适当展开双手及双臂。
He said that the advice, detailed in the journal Psychology, may be particularly useful for women, many of whom have been brought up to believe it is unfeminine to stand like a man.
纽曼称，《心理学》杂志里的具体建议对于女性来说尤为受用，但多数女性提出，这种像男人一样站立的站姿失去了女性特有的柔美感。
Mr Newman said: 'When I do coaching, I find that women more often resist standing like this.
'So, I show them pictures of people like Angelina Jolie, Beyoncé and Julia Roberts, and say 'they are all doing it and they have presence'.'
“所以，我把安吉丽娜•朱莉、碧昂斯、茱莉亚•罗伯茨的照片给她们看，并告诉她们‘她们都是这么站，气场强大着呢’。”
He said that we are 'born to stand' with our feet apart.
纽曼先生说，双脚分开站立是我们与生俱来的能力。
It is the first stance that toddlers adopt when they learn to walk and puts someone in a position of physical strength, while show they are not a pushover.
儿童学步时便用这种姿势，这种姿势显得人力气很大，也不容易打败。
The pose also makes the person themselves feel more confident and it may be that others pick up on this.
这种姿势同样能够让人感受到由内而发的自信，而且也更有可能得到别人的关注。
Mr Newman said: 'The findings show that if women can overcome their cultural conditioning and communicate using a stronger style, it could significantly increase their impact and influence and overall success in the workplace.
'Gender should never be a barrier to your ideas being heard.
“性别不应该成为向大众传达思想的障碍。”
However, like most things, practice makes perfect.
然而，如大多数事情一样，熟能生巧才是王道。
Mr Newman added: 'You have to practise it and do it in your own way. Everyone has their own style.'
