The government hack of an iPhone used by a San Bernardino killer serves as a reminder that phones and other electronic devices aren't impenetrable vaults.
政府雇佣黑客成功破解圣贝纳迪诺案件杀手的iPhone数据的案例，警醒我们，手机和其他电子设备并不像银行金库那样安全可靠，牢不可破。
While most people aren't targets of the NSA, FBI or a foreign government, hackers are looking to steal the financial and personal information of ordinary people.
虽然大多数人的金融账户和个人信息并非国家安全局、联邦调查局，或外国政府的调查目标，但却时刻可能成为黑客的窃取对象。
Your phone stores more than just selfies. Your email account on the phone, for instance, is a gateway to resetting banking and other sensitive passwords.
您的手机中不仅存有自拍，还有许多其他关键信息。例如，黑客可通过电子邮箱账户，重置您的银行账户密码和其他敏感密码。
Like washing your hands and brushing your teeth, a little 'cyber hygiene' can go a long way toward preventing disaster.
“网络清洁”虽然是不起眼的小事，但就像洗手和刷牙一样，可以为您省去大麻烦。
LOCK YOUR PHONE WITH A PASSCODE
使用锁屏密码
Failing to do so is like leaving your front door unlocked.
手机不设密码锁，就像家里没人、门户大开一样，毫无安全可言。
A four-digit passcode - and an accompanying self-destruct feature that might wipe a phone's data after too many wrong guesses - stumped the FBI for weeks and forced them to bring in outside help.
别小看这一串四位数密码，输错太多次的话，手机就会自动抹掉数据。连FBI调查员都被这难倒，不得不请外援帮助。
Using six digits makes a passcode 100 times harder to guess.
六位密码要比四位密码难猜100倍。
And if you want to make it even harder, you can add letters and other characters to further increase the number of possible combinations.
如果想让密码更难猜，可以添加些字母或其他字符，这会进一步降低猜中几率，增加破解难度。
These are options on both iPhones and Android.
iPhone和安卓手机都有这些选项。
The iPhone's self-destruct feature is something you must turn on in the settings, under Touch ID & Passcode.
要打开iPhone的数据自动销毁功能，你可以在设置里面的Touch ID & Passcode选项下操作。
Do so, and the phone wipes itself clean after 10 failed attempts. But the 10 attempts apply to your guesses, too, if you forget your passcode, or if your kids start randomly punching in numbers. Android has a similar feature.
这样设置以后，输错密码10次，手机就会自动抹掉数据。但是，如果您真忘记了密码，或者熊孩子随手乱按数字，手机也会在密码输错10次后自动销毁数据。安卓系统也有类似的功能。
Both systems will also introduce waiting periods after several wrong guesses to make it tough to try all combos.
密码输错几次后，iPhone和安卓系统都会进入停用模式，所以很难再继续试密码。
Biometrics, such as fingerprint scanners, can act as a shortcut and make complex passcodes less of a pain.
我们还能通过指纹验证等生物识别技术，方便快捷地进行验证，免去输入密码的麻烦。
