USE ENCRYPTION
使用加密功能
Much to the FBI's displeasure, iPhones running at least iOS 8 offer full-disk encryption by default.
更让联邦调查局头疼的是，iPhone从iOS8系统版本开始，默认为全磁盘提供加密功能。
That means that the information stored on the phone can't be extracted - by authorities or by hackers - and read on another computer.
这意味着，无论政府或者黑客，都无法在另一台电脑上读取手机所储存的信息。
If the phone isn't unlocked first, any information obtained would be scrambled and unreadable.
如果手机没有被解锁，从中获取的任何信息都是不可读的乱码。
With Android, however, you typically have to turn that on in the settings.
对于安卓系统，你得在设置中开启加密功能。
Google's policy requires many phones with the latest version of Android, including its own Nexus phones, to offer encryption by default.
针对默认加密服务，谷歌的政策要求手机安装最新安卓系统，包括谷歌自己的Nexus手机，内附加密升级版软件。
But, according to Google, only 2.3 percent of active Android devices currently are running that version.
但据谷歌数据统计，目前只有2.3%的安卓活跃用户在使用该版本。
SET UP DEVICE FINDERS
设置手机寻找功能
Find My iPhone isn't just for finding your phone in the couch cushions.
“查找我的iPhone”功能并不是在沙发垫上找手机那么简单。
If your device disappears, you can put it in Lost Mode. That locks your screen with a passcode, if it isn't already, and lets you display a custom message with a phone number to help you get it back.
如果手机不见了，您可以通过密码将其设置成丢失模式，锁定手机。锁定前，您还可以在自己的iPhone上显示用来取得联系的电话号码，帮助找回手机。
The app comes with iPhones, but you need to set it up before you lose your phone. Look for the Find iPhone app in the Extras folder.
虽然这项应用程序是iPhone自带的，但是你得在手机丢失前设置好。打开Extras文件夹，即可找到Find iPhone应用。
Meanwhile, Activation Lock makes it harder for thieves to sell your device.
与此同时，有了激活锁定功能，小偷也很难将赃物卖出。
The phone becomes unusable - it can't be reactivated - without knowing its Apple ID. The feature kicks in automatically on phones running at least iOS 7.
不知道苹果账户的ID和密码，就无法重新激活使用手机。iOS7系统版本以上的iPhone都自带这项功能。
If all else fails, you can remotely wipe the phone's data.
如果上述尝试都已失败，那么您只好远程抹掉手机数据。
While your information will be lost, at least it won't end up in the hands of a nefarious person.
哪怕手机信息全没了，也比落在坏人手里强。
There isn't anything comparable built into Android phones, but Google's Android Device Manager app, along with a handful of others made by third parties, can be downloaded for free from the Google Play app store.
虽然安卓系统目前没有类似功能，但谷歌的“安卓设备管理器”应用和第三方出品的一些其他软件也能发挥一定作用。这些应用可从谷歌官方电子市场免费下载。
