Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe is pressing for President Vladimir Putin to be brought in from the cold, saying Russian help is crucial to tackling multiple crises in the Middle East.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)敦促西方同俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔渠京(Vladimir Putin)恢复合作，称俄罗斯的协助对解决中东的多重危机至关重要。
In an interview with Nikkei and the Financial Times, Mr Abe said he was willing to go to Moscow as this year’s chair of the Group of Seven advanced economies, or to invite the Russian president to Tokyo.
在接受日本经济新闻社(Nikkei)与英国《金融时报》采访时，安倍表示，他愿意以七国集团(G7) 2016年轮值主席的身份访问莫斯科，或者邀请普京访问东京。
Pointing to tension between Saudi Arabia and Iran, the war in Syria, and the threat of radical Islamism, Mr Abe said: “We need the constructive engagement of Russia.”
在谈及沙特阿拉伯与伊朗之间的紧张关系、叙利亚内战以及激进伊斯兰主义的威胁时，安倍说：“我们需要俄罗斯的建设性参与。”
The former G8 excluded Russia following its annexation of Crimea and military support for separatist rebels in eastern Ukraine. But while Japan has joined in sweeping economic sanctions, Mr Abe made clear he wants to work with Mr Putin.
由于俄罗斯吞并了克里米亚并在军事上支持乌克兰东部的分裂分子，原来的八国集团(G8)将俄罗斯赶出门外。虽然日本加入了对俄罗斯的全面经济制裁，但安倍明确表示希望与普京合作。
“As chair of the G7, I need to seek solutions regarding the stability of the region as well as the whole world,” he said, noting Japan’s ongoing territorial dispute with Russia over the Kuril Islands. “I believe appropriate dialogue with Russia, appropriate dialogue with president Putin is very important.”
“作为七国集团轮值主席，我需要为地区乃至整个世界的稳定寻求解决方案，”他说。他特别提到了日俄之间关于千岛群岛(Kuril islands)悬而未决的领土争端。“我相信，与俄罗斯适当的对话、与普京总统适当的对话非常重要。”
As the only Asian nation in the club of rich democracies, Japan prizes its G7 membership, and Mr Abe is determined to make the most of the Ise-Shima summit he will host in May.
作为富裕民主国家俱乐部中唯一的亚洲国家，日本高度重视其七国集团成员国身份，安倍决心要充分利用他将在今年5月主持的伊势志摩(Ise-Shima)峰会。
Mr Abe’s call for engagement with Russia came despite his lauding the G7 as “a gathering of the champions of universal values like freedom, democracy, basic human rights and the rule of law”. He also voiced strong criticism of China’s attempt to “unilaterally change the status quo” in the South China Sea.
安倍在呼吁与俄罗斯接触的同时，盛赞七国集团为“自由、民主、基本人权以及法治等普世价值捍卫者的聚会”。他还对中国企图在南中国海“单方面改变现状”表示了强烈批评。
Potential security threats to Japan were highlighted earlier this month when North Korea tested a nuclear weapon. Despite his efforts to secure the return of Japanese citizens kidnapped by North Korea, Mr Abe vowed to toughen sanctions, saying it is no time for him to visit Pyongyang.
朝鲜本月早些时候进行的核武器试验突显了日本面临的潜在安全威胁。虽然正在努力争取被朝鲜绑架的日本公民回国，但安倍誓言要加强对朝鲜的制裁，并称现在还不是访问平壤的时候。
“The nuclear test unilaterally conducted by North Korea is a clear violation of United Nations resolutions,” said the Japanese prime minister. “We must make clear to North Korea that as long as they resort to these activities, it will not be business as usual.”
“朝鲜单方面进行的这次核试验明显违反了联合国决议，”安倍说，“我们必须让朝鲜明白，只要他们进行此类活动，一切就不会照旧。”
Mr Abe piled moral pressure on South Korean president Park Geun-hye to implement their recent settlement over wartime “comfort women” — his biggest diplomatic achievement last year. He said it was “a commitment and promise made between leaders” that had been welcomed by countries around the world.
安倍还向韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)施加道德压力，要求她贯彻两国近期就战时“慰安妇”问题达成的协议——安倍去年最大的外交成就。他称，这是“两国领导人之间做出的保证与承诺”，受到了世界各国的欢迎。
