 Dealing with a rusty bicycle chain can be a messy affair, but an innovative new bike from Ikea solves that pesky problem. The furniture retail giant recently introduced its new "Sladda" bike, which uses an oil-free and corrosion-resistant drive belt rather than a metal chain.
 自行车链生锈是件麻烦事儿，但家具零售巨头宜家最新推出的创意自行车，完美地解决了这个问题。该自行车名为“斯拉达”，与人们熟知的金属车链不同，宜家自行车取而代之的是驱动带，无需润滑油，且耐腐蚀。
 The drive belt is designed to last about 9,320 miles, which is about two to three times longer than a typical steel chain, according to Ikea. Moreover, the unisex Sladda bike has a "click system" that lets the rider snap on accessories, such as a basket, a bike bag rack and a towing trailer, the company said.
 这种驱动带设计行驶路程约9320英里，是普通钢链使用寿命的两到三倍。而且公司称，该款男女通用自行车还配有一键设置系统，骑行者可以自己添加各种配件，比如前车筐、后车篓，甚至能加挂拖车。
 Sladda is like tablet apps: You can add endless accessories to enhance ease of use.
 斯拉达就像可添加应用的平板电脑，你可以随意配置海量应用，以提高它的易用度。
 The new drive belt may be a boon to riders who take to their bikes even during inclement weather. Over time, steel bike chains tend to rust, particularly when they're covered with corrosive salt that's left on the roadways.
 对于那些即使在恶劣天气也要骑车的人来说，这种新款驱动带可能再合适不过了。随着长时间的使用，钢制自行车链易锈蚀，尤其当路面上的腐蚀性盐类附着在自行车上以后。
 Accumulated rust can be difficult to remove, and it can also affect the chain's flexibility. But Ikea's new bike won't have those problems.
 斑斑锈迹不易清理，也影响车链的灵活性。但宜家自行车就不会有这些问题。
 Moreover, the bike has automatic gears that are hidden in a sealed hub placed in the rear wheel.
 而且这款自行车还安装了自动变速系统，隐藏在后轮内的一个封闭盒中。
 Sladda's frame is made from aluminum, meaning it will be easy to lift and carry up and down stairs. The bike, which comes with either 26- or 28-inch wheels, also has two layers of lacquer that will protect the frame from mud, salt and scratches. But it's not for little kids — Ikea recommends that only people age 12 or older use it.
 斯拉达的车架是铝制的，拿起来很轻，上下楼梯携带也很方便。轮子大小分26英寸和28英寸两种。车架表面有两层喷漆，防淤泥、盐蚀和剐蹭。但车子不适于儿童使用——宜家建议12岁以上人群使用。
 The bike is expected to be available beginning in August for $797.
 该自行车有望今年8月上市，售价797美元。
