Chinese state-owned oil company China National Petroleum Corp has concluded a complicated asset shuffle that allows state-owned steel mill Baosteel, two Chinese insurers and a number of funds to acquire stakes in three mammoth pipelines carrying gas across China.
中国石油天然气集团公司(CNPC)完成了一项复杂的资产重组，让国有的宝钢(Baosteel)、两家国内保险公司以及一些基金入股横跨中国的三条巨大输气管道。
CNPC has long resisted plans by bureaucrats in Beijing to force it to open the pipeline network. But a sharp drop in oil prices has hit revenues at both the state-owned CNPC and its Hong Kong-listed unit PetroChina.
中国石油天然气集团公司长期抵制北京方面迫使它开放管网的计划。但是，油价大幅下跌打击了这家国有石油集团及其香港上市子公司中石油(PetroChina)的营业收入。
Income at both entities has dropped “dramatically” this year, PetroChina president Wang Dongjin said in a statement on CNPC’s website this month.
中石油总裁汪东进本月在集团公司网站上的一份声明中表示，两个实体今年的利润都显著下降。
The sale is the next in a series of steps through which CNPC and PetroChina are consolidating a sprawling pipelines business.
此次出售是中国石油天然气集团公司和中石油整合庞大管道业务的一系列步骤之一。
Beijing has indicated it could ultimately form a separate pipeline monopoly to encourage the development of China’s domestic natural gas industry which has so far been limited by CNPC’s stranglehold over the majority of the country’s pipeline network.
北京方面已经表示，它可能最终成立一家单独的管道企业，以促进国内天然气产业的发展。迄今该行业受到中石油掌控全国大部分管网的制约。
The total value of the pipelines is Rmb281.4bn ($43bn), PetroChina said.
中石油表示，这些管道的总价值达到2814亿元人民币（合430亿美元）。
The sale is an extension of a 2013 transaction in which PetroChina hived off an Rmb20bn stake in some of the pipelines to Baosteel and the other institutional investors to help raise money to complete the massive projects. At the time, that sale was hailed as part of a reform to allow non-energy companies into China’s tightly controlled state-owned energy sector.
此次出售是2013年一笔交易的延伸，在那笔交易中，中石油把价值200亿元人民币的管道股权出售给宝钢和其他机构投资者，以帮助筹集资金完成大型项目。当时，那笔出售被誉为改革的一部分，目的是让非能源企业进入中国严格控制的国有能源行业。
Last month, PetroChina sold a portion of its Trans-Asia Gas Pipeline business to state-owned asset holding company China Reform Holdings, for Rmb15bn-Rmb15.5bn.
上月，中石油将其在中亚天然气管道有限公司(Trans-Asia Gas Pipeline)所持的一部分股份以150亿至155亿元人民币出售给国有的资产控股公司——中国国新控股(China Reform Holdings)。
In a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange on Thursday, PetroChina said it would consolidate three pipeline companies into PetroChina Pipelines, in which it would own 72.26 per cent. The other shareholders in the pipeline companies, dating from the 2013 investment, would take shares in the combined entity.
在周四向香港交易所提交的申报文件中，中石油表示，将把三家管道公司整合并入中油管道(PetroChina Pipelines)，其将持有72.26%股份。三家管道公司的其他股东（源自2013年投资）将在合并后实体持有股份。
After the deal, domestic fund management company Guolian will hold 5.33 per cent of the combined pipeline network. The National Social Security Fund and Taikang Life would each hold over 4 per cent while Baosteel and New China Life would each hold about 3.5 per cent. Five Chinese investment funds would hold the remainder.
在这笔交易完成后，国内基金管理公司国联(Guolian)将持有合并后管网5.33%股份。全国社保基金(NSSF)和泰康人寿(Taikang Life)将分别持有逾4%股份，而宝钢和新华人寿保险(New China Life)将分别持有约3.5%股份。五只中国投资基金将持有其余股份。
Beijing has presented such asset reshuffles as part of economic reforms but has proven very reluctant to throw open the strategically important oil and gas industry to private investment.
北京方面把此类资产整合说成经济改革的一部分，但一向表现得非常不情愿放开具有重要战略意义的石油和天然气行业，让民营部门参与。
