I always wanted to work in media industry and I have had multiple experiences both in China and America in the related field. 
一直以来我都很想从事媒体方面的工作，并在中国和美国都有过相关经历。
I am currently a senior student at University of Minnesota Duluth studying Communication with a minor in Journalism.
我现在是一名明尼苏达大学德卢斯校区传播专业的大四学生，辅修新闻专业。
I was born and raised in China in a "media family" where many family members suggested me to stay away from media industry because of the intense working environment and people’s prejudice toward media professionals. My passion for the industry, however, kept me from listening to the advice.
我出生和成长在中国的一个“媒体家庭”。因为媒介工作强度大且媒体工作者承受着社会不少的非议，所以家中许多从事媒体工作的长辈曾劝我不要从事该行业，但对于这一行的热爱致使我没有听从这样的劝诫。
High school year I joined the editorial team my school magazine. I was first working as the graphic designer and copyeditor, and later the chief editor. I helped the school publish three issues and generated contents for two more issues after demission. 
高中时期我加入了学校校刊的编辑团队，起先是一名美术和文字编辑，之后曾担任执行主编。我帮助学校出版了三期刊物，并且在离职后持续为两期刊物提供了稿件。
Publication design and writing was my edge back in China. Throughout the years I lived there I received many awards, including a few provincial prizes and one national prize for a short story I wrote based on Sichuan Earthquake in May 2008.
在国内时，出版物设计和写作是我的强项。我曾获得过一些省级写作和设计的奖项。2009年我的一篇以08年汶川大地震为背景的短篇小说曾获国家级奖项。
After high school I chose English major at first at Shanxi University and then went to study abroad in U.S. in 2012 at University of Minnesota Duluth (UMD) for media related studies.
高中毕业后我选择就读了山西大学的英语专业，不久于2012年通过明尼苏达大学德卢斯校区与山西大学的出国项目转学到美国进行媒体相关专业的深造。
My foreign identity brought me inconvenience in many ways at first, and being unable to use English as efficiently as native English speakers made me feel like a former ballerina now spending life in a wheelchair. The feeling faded away quickly when I started to fit in. I started to publish news stories, and found out that my sensibility in culture and emotion helped me discover more stories while attending events, facing issues, and talking with others. My first published story Giant Panda home for Chinese Duluthians received the highest view count on Lake Voice News ran by Writing Department at UMD. Later I worked for Lake Voice News as a copyeditor during a summer.
初来乍到，我感受到自己的外籍身份带来的诸多不便，也为自己不能像本地人一样熟练地运用英语感到难过，好像从前的芭蕾舞者如今要在轮椅上度日。这样的感觉在我逐渐适应环境后便消失了。我开始发表新闻作品，并发觉自己在文化和情绪方面的敏感程度可以帮助我在面对不同活动、事件、和人物时挖掘出更多的故事。我发表的第一篇新闻故事《大熊猫中餐馆，德卢斯中国人的家》在当时的明尼苏达大学德卢斯校区写作系主管的Lake Voice News上获得了该网站创办以来的最高点击率。之后的夏天我在网站担任了文编。
Accomplishing a degree in communication and journalism was quite a challenging journey for an international student from which I have improved a lot; therefore I decided to continue this journey and attend graduate journalism school.
对于一个国际学生来说，完成传播与新闻类的学历并不容易，从中我也受益不少，于是我决定申请研究生来继续这趟征程。
My goal is to strengthen my skills and find a job in media industry especially in publishing and international reporting. I want to keep learning new journalistic skills and techniques to help me stay fresh in the field, and hope to work for a media company in America or start my own magazine in China in future.
我的目标是加强自己的技能，并在媒体行业特别是出版或国际新闻领域找到一份工作。我希望可以继续学习新闻相关的技能与技术，使自己在媒介领域持续处于前沿。更加长远地，我希望可以在美国的一家媒介公司工作，或将来在中国创办自己的杂志。
I organized my media related experiences and working samples in my personal website. Please free feel to check them out and hope to meet you at Medill next summer.
我将自己媒体相关的经历和写作样本整理发表在了我的个人网站上，敬请查阅。希望在来年夏天与你在Medill相遇。
