 A large bomb exploded near the entry of a children’s park in the Pakistani city of Lahore on Sunday, kil，ling at least 50 people and injuring at least 100 others, in an attack that sent shockwaves across a country often seemingly inured to violence.
 一枚大型炸弹周日在巴基斯坦拉合尔市一个儿童公园的入口处附近发生爆炸，导致至少65人死亡，至少另外300人受伤。这次袭击在这个往往貌似已对暴力习以为常的国家引发了冲击波。
 The terror attack, one of the biggest in Pakistan since Islamists slaughtered more than 100 children at a massacre in an army school in 2014, was timed to coincide with the evening holiday rush at the park, one of the largest family recreation areas in Lahore.
 这是自2014年伊斯兰主义者在一个陆军公立学校屠杀逾100名儿童以来发生在巴基斯坦的最大恐怖袭击之一。爆炸恰好发生在该公园的节日晚间人流高峰时刻。该公园是拉合尔市最大的家庭休闲娱乐区之一。
 The death toll was still rising on Sunday evening, with the city’s hospitals declaring a state of emergency. Many of the casualties were women and children.
 周日晚，死亡人数还在上升。拉合尔市的多家医院宣布进入紧急状态。死伤者有很多是妇女和儿童。
 Pakistani authorities said the bomb at Gulshan-i-Iqbal Park appeared to have been triggered by a suicide bomber, though they said they were still investigating. Pakistani media have speculated that members of Pakistan’s tiny Christian minority, out celebrating the Easter holiday, may have been the target.
 巴基斯坦当局表示，发生在高尔杉伊克巴尔公园(Gulshan-i-Iqbal Park)的爆炸似乎是由一名自杀式炸弹袭击者引发的，尽管他们表示仍在进行调查。巴基斯坦媒体推测，当时在公园庆祝复活节的占国内人口比例极低的基督徒或许是攻击目标。
 Lahore is the capital of Pakistan’s populous Punjab province, home to more than 60 per cent of the population. As the political base of the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, who still operates out of his sprawling house in a Lahore suburb, the city is typically seen as one of Pakistan’s safest, relatively insulated from such attacks.
 拉合尔是巴基斯坦人口众多的旁遮普省(Punjab)的首府，该国60%以上的基督徒居住在那里。作为巴基斯坦总理纳瓦兹•谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)的政治基地，该市通常被认为是巴基斯坦最安全、恐怖袭击相对较少的城市之一。谢里夫仍在该市郊区的一个大院主持日常工作。
 “I don’t remember so many casualties in a single terrorist attack in Lahore,” a senior police office in the city told the Financial Times.
 “我记不起来拉合尔曾在一次恐怖袭击中出现过这么高的伤亡人数，”拉合尔市一名高级警官对英国《金融时报》表示。
 The attack prompted renewed debate over Pakistan’s policy towards hardline Islamist groups, which they have traditionally deemed useful assets in regional power politics.
 这次袭击引发人们围绕巴基斯坦对强硬派伊斯兰主义组织的政策重新展开辩论。传统上这些组织被视为地区实力政治中的有用资产。
