Pakistan’s army chief was feted in Beijing this week on a visit that could heighten concerns in New Delhi and Washington over China’s intentions in South Asia.
巴基斯坦陆军参谋长本周在北京得到款待，他的访问可能加剧新德里和华盛顿方面对于中国在南亚意图的担忧。
The arrival of General Raheel Sharif in the Chinese capital on Monday — a day after India successfully tested an interceptor missile designed to destroy incoming nuclear capable missiles — follows a report by the Pentagon warning that China is seeking to establish a naval base in Pakistan.
拉希勒•谢里夫上将(General Raheel Sharif)本周一抵达中国首都的一天前，印度成功试射了一枚拦截导弹，其设计宗旨是摧毁来袭的可搭载核弹头的导弹，而五角大楼最近一份报告警告称，中国正寻求在巴基斯坦建立一个海军基地。
The report, published last week, said China would “most likely seek to establish additional naval logistics hubs in countries with which it has a longstanding friendly relationship and similar strategic interests, such as Pakistan.”
上周发表的五角大楼报告称，中国将“最有可能寻求在与其有着长期友好关系、且战略利益相近的国家，如巴基斯坦，建立更多的海军后勤枢纽。”
Chinese companies have helped Pakistan build the port of Gwadar on the Arabian Sea, the centrepiece of the $46bn pledged by Beijing for infrastructure spending linking China to Pakistan, known as the China Pakistan Economic Corridor. Many observers believe that China will ultimately seek to use the port as a naval base.
中国企业已帮助巴基斯坦建设濒临阿拉伯海的瓜达尔港(port of Gwadar)，该港是北京方面承诺投资兴建的460亿美元“中巴经济走廊”的核心项目。许多观察人士相信，中国最终将寻求使用该港作为一个海军基地。
However, both Pakistani and Chinese officials said their understanding of the economic corridor is that it is limited to economic co-operation and has no security component.
然而，巴基斯坦和中国两国官员都表示，他们对经济走廊的理解是，它仅限于经济合作，没有安全成分。
Andrew Small, an expert on China Pakistan relations at the German Marshall Fund, said it was reasonable to expect some sort of basing arrangement “Having crossed the threshold with the Djibouti [in the Horn of Africa] deal, Pakistan would be a very obvious choice, and it appears that the PLAN (People’s Liberation Army Navy) views it that way.”
德国马歇尔基金会(German Marshall Fund)的中巴关系专家马安洲(Andrew Small)表示，预期会有某种设立基地的安排是合理的，原因是“（在中国在非洲之角的）吉布提越过门槛后，巴基斯坦将是一个显而易见的选择，而且看起来解放军海军是这样认为的”。
Such a step would be sure to anger India, and raise questions in Washington. Xu Jin, a professor of international relations at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing, said that the Chinese-Pakistani friendship is “the closest thing China has to an alliance.”
这一步肯定会激怒印度，并在华盛顿引发问题。北京中国社会科学院世界经济与政治研究所国际政治理论研究室主任徐进表示，中巴友谊是“中国最接近联盟的关系”。
While in Beijing, Gen Sharif met Chinese premier Li Keqiang and held talks with Fan Changlong, vice-chairman of the Central Military Commission, which oversees the country’s military.
在北京期间，拉希勒上将会晤了中国总理李克强，并与中国最高军事领导机构——中央军事委员会的副主席范长龙举行会谈。
Pakistan has long viewed China has a counterweight to its historic enemy, India. There are concerns in Islamabad that this week’s interceptor missile test may tip the balance of power between the two nuclear armed neighbours in India’s favour.
巴基斯坦一直把中国视为制衡其宿敌印度的因素。目前伊斯兰堡有人担心，本周的拦截导弹试验可能使两个核邻国之间的实力平衡向印度倾斜。
“In times of difficulty, Pakistan has always turned to its close friend China for help. I am certain the Indian test came up for detailed discussions between General Raheel Sharif and the Chinese,” a senior Pakistani foreign ministry official said.
“在困难的时候，巴基斯坦总是求助于其密友中国。我敢肯定，拉希勒•谢里夫上将和中方之间的详细讨论将谈到印度进行的试验，”巴基斯坦外交部一名资深官员表示。
Gen Sharif’s visit to China follows a recent squabble between Pakistan and Washington over congressional objections to US funding for eight new F-16 fighter jets meant for sale to Islamabad.
拉希勒上将访华之前，巴基斯坦最近和华盛顿方面发生争吵，症结是美国国会反对由美国为其计划售予巴基斯坦的八架新型F-16战斗机提供资金。
Following the spat, Pakistani officials said they were considering alternatives such as the Chinese J-10 for future purchases. Pakistan is already by far China’s main client for arms exports.
发生争吵后，巴基斯坦官员曾表示，他们正考虑未来采购替代战斗机，如中国的歼-10（J-10，北约代号：Firebird）。巴基斯坦已经是中国遥遥领先的主要军售客户。
“The timing of this visit is very significant,” said Masood Khan, Pakistan’s former ambassador to China and now head of the Islamabad Strategic Studies Institute (ISSI). “There’s a long history of China’s co-operation with Pakistan.”
“这次访问的时机非常重大，”巴基斯坦前驻华大使、现在领导伊斯兰堡战略研究所(ISSI)的马苏德•汗(Masood Khan)表示。“中巴合作具有悠久历史。”
