 WASHINGTON — A group of news media outlets published articles on Sunday based on what they said were 11.5 million leaked documents from a Panama law firm that helped some of the world’s wealthiest people — including politicians, athletes and business moguls — establish offshore bank accounts.
 华盛顿——周日，多家新闻机构发表了报道，依据是它们所说的从一家巴拿马律师事务所泄露的1150万份文件。这家律所帮助世界上最富有的一些人——包括政界人物、体育明星和商业大亨——建立离岸银行账户。
 The German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung said its reporters had obtained the documents from a confidential source. The newspaper then shared the files with other media organizations, like The Guardian and the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists.
 德国的《南德意志报》(Süddeutsche Zeitung)表示，此前该报记者从一个秘密信源获得了这些文件。之后，它将这些文件分享给了包括《卫报》(The Guardian)和国际调查记者同盟(International Consortium of Investigative Journalists)在内的其他媒体机构。
 In an article, the investigative journalism organization said the documents revealed the offshore accounts of 140 politicians and public officials, including a dozen current and former world leaders and several individuals with close ties to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. The organization said reporters at 100 news media outlets working in 25 languages had used the documents to investigate the law firm, Mossack Fonseca, and its clients, including political figures in countries like Iceland, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.
 国际调查记者同盟在其中一篇文章中表示，这些文件披露了140名政界人士和官员的离岸账户，其中包括十几位现任和前任大国领导人，以及数名与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)关系密切的人士。该机构称，供职于100家新闻机构、共计采用25种工作语言的记者利用这些文件对这家名为莫萨克-冯塞卡(Mossack Fonseca)的律所及其客户展开了调查，包括冰岛、巴基斯坦和沙特阿拉伯等国的政坛人物。
 It is not illegal in many cases to have offshore bank accounts. But they are used in some instances by wealthy individuals and criminals to hide money and business transactions, and to avoid paying taxes.
 在很多情况下，开设离岸银行账户并不违法。但富人与罪犯有时会利用这种方式隐藏资金和掩盖商业交易，以及用来避税。
 The leak followed a series of high-profile breaches in recent years in which individuals working for governments or companies have amassed internal files and then given them to media organizations. In 2014, Edward J. Snowden, a contractor for the National Security Agency, gave reporters what intelligence officials have estimated was at least 1.5 million documents from the agency. Hundreds of articles have been published based on those documents.
 在这些文件泄露之前，最近几年出现了一系列令人瞩目的泄密事件。一些为政府或企业工作的个人搜集了内部文件，然后将它们提供给媒体机构。2014年，美国国家安全局前承包商爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)给记者提供给了来自该部门的大量文件，情报官员估计其数量至少有150万份。基于这些文件，记者们撰写并发表了成百上千篇报道。
 The media organizations looking into Mossack Fonseca are expected to publish many more articles based on the new documents in the coming days.
 接下来几天，调查莫萨克-冯塞卡的多家媒体机构有望发表更多基于这些新文件所做的报道。
 The firm, which has dozens of offices around the world, has been investigated by law enforcement authorities in several countries over accusations of connections to money laundering.
 这家律所在全世界有数十家分支机构，因受到与洗钱相关的指控，它正在被好几个国家的执法当局调查。
 In a lengthy statement provided to The Guardian, the firm said it could not respond to specific questions, but insisted that many of the individuals and companies named in the documents were never clients of Mossack Fonseca. The firm added that in many cases it was “legal and common for companies to establish commercial entities in different jurisdictions for a variety of legitimate reasons.”
 该律所在给《卫报》提供的一份长篇声明中表示不能就某些特定问题做出回应，但它坚称，文件中提到的许多个人和企业，从来都不是莫萨克-冯塞卡的客户。律所还称，在很多情况下，“企业出于各种正当理由，在不同司法管辖区建立商业实体是合法行为，也是常见的做法。”
 “Our services are regulated on multiple levels, often by overlapping agencies, and we have a strong compliance record,” the firm said.
 “我们的服务经常受到职能有重叠的机构的多层监管，我们有很好的合规记录，”该律所表示。
 “In addition, we have always complied with international protocols” to assure “that the companies we incorporate are not being used for tax evasion, money laundering, terrorist finance or other illicit purposes,” it added.
 “此外，我们一直遵守国际协议”以确保“我们注册成立的公司不被用于逃税、洗钱、恐怖融资或其他非法目，”该律所补充说。
 According to the news reports, the documents related to Russia identified several officials with close ties to Mr. Putin, including two of his oldest friends, Sergei Roldugin, a cellist, and Yuri V. Kovalchuk, the principal shareholder of Bank Rossiya, a financial institution that has come under sanctions by the United States as the “cashier” of officials in the Kremlin.
 据新闻报道，与俄罗斯有关的文件提到几名与普京有密切关系的官员，其中包括他的两位老朋友：大提琴家谢尔盖·罗尔杜金(Sergei Roldugin)和俄罗斯银行(Bank Rossiya)的主要股东尤里·V·科瓦利丘克(Yuri V. Kovalchuk)，这家金融机构因是克里姆林宫官员的“出纳”已受到美国的制裁。
 The reports said Mr. Putin’s friends and associates had channeled $2 billion through a complex, deliberately convoluted network of offshore companies. Mr. Putin’s name appears on none of the records for the companies or the transactions, but Bank Rossiya and Mr. Roldugin do.
 报道称，普京的朋友和伙伴蓄意通过一个错综复杂的离岸公司网络将20亿美元输出国外。普京的名字并没有在任何公司或交易记录上出现，但文件上有俄罗斯银行和罗尔杜金的名字。
 Mr. Roldugin acknowledged in an interview with The New York Times that he owned a share of Bank Rossiya, which he acquired in the 1990s, but offered few details about an investment that made him, on paper at least, a very rich man.
 罗尔杜金在接受纽约时报记者采访时承认，他拥有俄罗斯银行的股份，那是他在20世纪90年代购买的，但没有提供有关细节，这笔投资至少让他在纸面上成为一个非常富有的人。
 “I’ve got an apartment, a car and a dacha,” he said. “I don’t have millions.”
 “我有一套公寓、一辆汽车和一个乡间别墅，”他说。“我没有上百万的钱。”
 According to the disclosures, Mr. Roldugin holds similar shares of other companies, including an advertising firm founded by another close associate of Mr. Putin’s, Mikhail Y. Lesin, who was found dead in a hotel in Washington last fall.
 根据泄露的信息，罗尔杜金在其他公司持有类似的股份，其中一家是普京的另一名亲信米哈伊尔·Y·列辛(Mikhail Y. Lesin)创办的广告公司，列辛去年秋天被发现在华盛顿的一家酒店死亡。
 Last week, the Kremlin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, preemptively denounced the articles published on Sunday. He warned that the consortium had prepared an “information attack” against Mr. Putin and his associates, and described the articles as “an undisguised paid-for hack job.”
 上周，克里姆林宫发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)先发制人地谴责了周日发表的文章。他警告说，国际调查记者同盟准备对普京及其伙伴发起“信息攻击”，并把文章描述为“赤裸裸的雇佣文人行径”。
 The revelations also touched Ukraine’s president, Petro O. Poroshenko, who was elected in the aftermath of the political upheaval in the country in 2014 that led to the annexation of Crimea and open conflict with Russia in eastern Ukraine.
 泄露的材料中还提到乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)，他是于2014年乌克兰政治动荡之后当选的，那次政治动荡导致克里米亚被兼并，以及在乌克兰东部与俄罗斯发生公开冲突。
 Mr. Poroshenko, a tycoon with assets in television and a chocolatier before his entrance into politics, pledged to divest himself of his holdings but instead moved the assets into an offshore company in the British Virgin Islands, according to the consortium’s reporting. It said that Mr. Poroshenko, who has received political support from the United States, had not disclosed the arrangement.
 波罗申科步入政坛之前是拥有电视台资产和巧克力工厂的大亨，他曾承诺要处理掉自己拥有的股份，但据国际调查记者同盟的报道，他只不过把资产转移到了一家在英属维尔京群岛注册的离岸公司。报道说，波罗申科并未披露过这种安排，他有来自美国的政治支持。
 The documents also contained information about how some foreign leaders used foundations and companies in Panama to anonymously own mining companies and real estate, according to the consortium.
 据国际调查记者同盟，泄露的文件中还包含了某些外国领导人如何利用基金会和公司在巴拿马匿名拥有矿产和房地产的信息。
