Dilma Rousseff vowed to fight to the endafter Brazil’s senate voted to suspend her as president, opening a formalimpeachment process against her for budgetary crimes.
巴西总统迪尔玛•罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)誓言要战斗到底，此前，巴西参议院投票暂停了其总统职务，开启了围绕预算方面犯罪指控对她的正式弹劾进程。
The decision, threatens to end 13 years ofrule by Ms Dilma’s leftist Workers’ party, the PT, and opens the way for anexpected market-friendly government led by vice-president Michel Temer. He tookoffice as interim president immediately after her suspension.
此次投票或将终结罗塞夫所在左翼工人党(PT)长达13年的统治，为由副总统米歇尔•特梅尔(Michel Temer)领导的期待中的亲市场政府开辟了道路。罗塞夫被停职后，特梅尔随即出任临时总统。
“Brazil’s young democracy is being subjected to a coup,”Ms Roussefftold a chanting crowd of supporters in front of the presidential palace. “I will resistthrough all legal means.”
“巴西年轻的民主制度正遭遇一场政变，”罗塞夫对总统府前高呼口号的大批支持者表示，“我将通过所有法律途径进行反抗。”
The new government takes the helm as LatinAmerica’s largest economy suffers potentially its worse recession for acentury and as its political class is being devastated by a sweeping corruptionscandal at state-run oil company Petrobras.
新政府掌权之际，正值这个拉丁美洲最大经济体遭遇有可能是一个世纪以来最严重的衰退，巴西国家石油公司(Petrobras)爆出的大规模腐败丑闻也正在严重打击该国政治精英阶层。
Investors have been cheered by Mr Temer’sappointment of respected former central banker Henrique Meirelles as financeminister.
特梅尔将任命受尊敬的、前巴西央行行长恩里克•梅雷莱斯(Henrique Meirelles)出任财长部长，投资者对此倍感鼓舞。
But Mr Temer faces an uphill task inrallying support in the fractured congress for painful economic measures,including stabilising the budget.
但特梅尔面临着一项艰巨的任务，他要在四分五裂的国会里获得支持，从而推行包括稳定预算在内的痛苦的经济措施。
Ms Rousseff choked up as she recalled howshe had been tortured as a young Marxist guerrilla during Brazil’s militarydictatorship more than 30 years ago. “I have suffered the unspeakable pain oftorture, the agonising pain of disease [cancer] and now I suffer yet again theequally indescribable pain of injustice,”she said.
罗塞夫回忆起30多年前巴西军事独裁统治期间，还是一名年轻马克思主义游击队员的自己曾遭受过的折磨，忍不住哽咽。她说：“我曾遭受酷刑带来的无法言说的痛苦，（癌症）疾病带来的极度痛苦，现在我又遭受不公正带来的同样难以形容的痛苦。”
Senators voted 55-22 against Brazil’s firstfemale president. She will be suspended for up to six months while the chargesare deliberated by the house.
参议员们以55票对22票通过弹劾这位巴西首位女总统。在议院审议相关指控期间，她将暂时停职最多6个月。
