The impeachment of Brazil’s President Dilma Rousseff was thrown into confusion yesterday after the acting head of the lower house of Congress said he was annulling a critical vote in the process.
对巴西总统迪尔玛•罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff，见上图)的弹劾昨日陷入窘境，原因是国会众议院代议长宣布弹劾进程中的一项关键表决无效。
The Speaker, Waldir Maranhão, said a marathon vote on April 17, in which a landslide majority of the lower house had supported the impeachment, had contained procedural irregularities and would be cancelled and held again without giving a specific date.
巴西众议院代议长瓦尔迪尔•马拉尼昂(Waldir Maranhão)表示，4月17日那场漫长的表决——众议院以压倒性多数通过对罗塞夫总统的弹劾案——包含程序性违规行为，将被取消，并重新进行投票，但并未给出具体日期。
The move came as the Senate was preparing to vote on the process tomorrow in a move that could lead to the suspension of Ms Rousseff and the beginning of her formal political trial if a majority as expected supported the motion.
众议院代议长做出该决定之际，参议院正准备于明天对此次弹劾进行表决，如果该动议如预期那样获得参议院多数支持，罗塞夫将可能遭到停职，并正式开始接受政治审判。
The surprise decision by Mr Maranhão has thrown new uncertainty into the impeachment process, which markets had hoped would lead to a new market-friendly government led by Ms Rousseff’s vice-president, Michel Temer, as early as this week.
马拉尼昂这一出人意料的决定给此次弹劾进程增加了新的不确定性，市场本来预期，此次弹劾最早将于本周产生一个由现任副总统米歇尔•特梅尔(Michel Temer)领导的亲市场的新政府。
If the Senate voted for the impeachment of the president for budgetary crimes, Mr Temer was expected to enter immediately with a new cabinet including the appointment of a heavyweight finance minister, former central bank governor Henrique Meirelles.
如果参议院表决支持以总统在执行财政预算中犯下“渎职罪”为由对她进行弹劾，特梅尔将立即组建新内阁，包括任命重量级人物、前巴西央行行长恩里克•梅雷莱斯(Henrique Meirelles)出任财政部长。
Brazil’s real weakened nearly 4 per cent against the dollar on the news of the acting house Speaker’s decision before recovering some lost ground to trade down 1.77 per cent at R$3.5638 around midday.
众议院代议长的决定传出后，巴西雷亚尔对美元下跌近4%，随后部分回升，午盘时分左右跌幅降至1.77%、汇率约为1美元兑3.5638巴西雷亚尔。
“This is a very sad moment, I’m afraid for what will happen,” said Marcos da Costa, president of the Brazilian bar association, OAB in São Paulo. “This is a political game that is affecting everyday life in Brazil and paralysing the economy.”
“这是一个非常遗憾的时刻。将要发生的事情让我害怕。”巴西律师公会(OAB)圣保罗分会会长马科斯•达科斯塔(Marcos da Costa)说，“这是一个正在影响巴西日常生活、让经济陷入瘫痪的政治游戏。”
The head of the Senate’s commission on impeachment, Raimundo Lira, said the Senate vote would go ahead as scheduled tomorrow.
参议院弹劾总统特别委员会主席雷蒙多•利拉(Raimundo Lira)表示，参议院明日将按计划启动表决。
