Erotic sculpture park? Check. Bumper cars designed like genitalia? Check. Snack bar serving aphrodisiac recipes? Check. Sex on the premises? Uh, better not.
情色雕塑公园？有了。 生殖器造型的碰碰车？有了。供应催情餐点的小吃店？也有了。在现场翻云覆雨？最好免了 。
Entrepreneurs in Brazil are seeking to build an adults-only theme park called ErotikaLand near the city of Piracicaba, about two hours’ drive from São Paulo, and they hope to open its doors by 2018. But the project is setting off debate over public displays of sexuality in Brazil, where Carnival celebrations feature scantily clad dancers and thousands of short-stay love motels strive to please an exacting clientele.
一群巴西企业家正设法在该国皮拉西卡巴市近郊、距圣保罗约两小时车程处打造一个名叫"情色美地"(ErotikaLand)的成人主题游乐园，并希望于2018年底前开始营业。不过这项计划在巴西引发了关于公开演示色欲的辩论，虽然该国嘉年华庆典的特色之一就是衣不蔽体的舞者，亦有无数情侣宾馆致力迎合挑剔的客群。
“We cannot be known as the capital of sex,” Matheus Erler, a member of the Christian Socialist Party who leads the Piracicaba City Council, told reporters. He said he was worried that the park would attract “debauched individuals.”
“我们不能以‘性爱之都’闻名于世，”皮拉西卡巴的基督教社会党(Christian Socialist Party)党员马提欧斯‧艾莱(Matheus Erler)告诉记者。该党亦是当地市议会的最大党派。艾莱表示，他担心这座主题乐园会引来“行为不检者”。
The businessman in charge of the project, Mauro Morata, tried to ease some local concerns when he made clear that the park would be built outside the city limits. Still, municipal leaders in Piracicaba and nearby São Pedro have maneuvered to block the project. Mr. Morata says he is pressing ahead anyway with his search for an acceptable site, and emphasizes the project’s economic upsides: 250 new jobs and thousands of visitors who can afford $100 apiece to get in.
主持这项计划的商人茂罗‧莫拉塔(Mauro Morata)已尝试抚平地方人士的不安，他明确表示这座主题乐园会建在市区之外。不过，皮拉西卡巴与邻近的圣佩德罗市府高层仍着手阻挡该计划。莫拉塔表示，他无论如何都会推动这个项目，继续寻找合意的地点，并强调了该项目在经济方面的好处：它能创造250个新工作岗位，并吸引付得起每人100美元入场费的大批游客。
As for the racy theme, the investors behind ErotikaLand say the park will promote a healthy approach to sex. Parkgoers will be able to tour a museum exploring the history of sexuality, and employees will promote condom use. The park will have a “sex playground,” but it will feature a labyrinth, Ferris wheel and water slide.
至于园区的不雅主题，“情色美地”的幕后金主表示，他们会发扬健康的性爱观。游客入园后可以参观一间探索性行为历史的博物馆，工作人员也会推广保险套的使用。园内还会有一个“性爱游乐场”，不过里面安排的是迷宫、摩天轮与滑水道。
What the customers cannot have, the investors say, is any actual intercourse — at least, not in the park.
这些投资人说 ，他们的顾客唯一不能做的是真枪实弹的性行为─ 至少在园区内不行。
“This won’t be a place for nuns, but it’s not like we’re trying to recreate Sodom and Gomorrah,” Mr. Morata said. “If attendees want to take things to another level, they can go to a nearby motel — which we will operate.”
“这不是一个给修女光顾的地方，但我们也不是要再现所多玛与蛾摩拉(译注：圣经中的罪恶之城)，” 莫拉塔表示。“如果游客有意把行程再升级，可以前往附近的一间旅馆，它也在我们旗下。”
