 Brazil’s congress voted on Sunday evening to impeach President Dilma Rousseff, ushering in a new period of heightened political uncertainty in Latin America’s biggest country.
 巴西众议院在上周日晚投票通过了弹劾总统迪尔玛•罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)的动议，这令拉美最大国家进入了一个政治更加动荡的新时期。
 Pro-impeachment politicians erupted into cheers and patriotic songs when the vote tally reached 342 in favour of the motion — the two-thirds of the 513-seat lower house needed to approve the motion, compared with 126 against. The final result had yet to be counted.
 通过弹劾动议须得到众议院513个议席中的三分之二议席赞成。当赞成票达到342票时，支持弹劾总统的政治人士爆发出热烈的欢呼，并高唱爱国歌曲。反对票为126票。最终投票结果尚未统计出来。
 The decision threatens to bring an abrupt end to 13 years of Ms Rousseff`s socialist Workers’ party, or PT, rule and allow her vice-president Michel Temer to form a new government.
 巴西众议院的这一决定可能会突然终结罗塞夫所在的、奉行社会主义的劳工党(PT)长达13年的执政历程，并令她的副总统米歇尔•特梅尔(Michel Temer)能够组建新政府。
 The baton now passes to the senate, which analysts expect to open the formal impeachment process, essentially a political trial, in the first half of next month.
 弹劾的接力棒现在传到了参议院手中。分析人士预计，参议院将于5月上半旬启动正式弹劾程序。这场弹劾实质上是一场政治审判。
 But the decision by congress to pass the impeachment process after a marathon three-day session of speeches and behind-the-scenes politicking also threatens to increase political risk in Brazil.
 巴西众议院决定通过弹劾程序前，经历了三天马拉松式的演讲和幕后政治活动。这项决定可能加剧巴西面临的政治风险。
 The lower house of congress must now pass the impeachment process to the senate, which is expected by this Friday to install a special commission on the impeachment process.
 巴西众议院现在必须将弹劾程序转至参议院，预计参议院将于本周五围绕弹劾程序设置一个特别委员会。
 The commission will have 10 days to submit its own report on the proposal, which will then be put to a vote in the senate on about May 11. If the senate votes by a simple majority of its 81 members to accept the motion, the formal impeachment trial will begin.
 该委员会将有10天时间提交它自己的弹劾报告，然后参议院将在5月11日左右付诸表决。如果参议院81名议员以过半票数通过弹劾动议，将开启正式的弹劾审判。
 Ms Rousseff will be suspended for up to six months and Mr Temer will take over as acting president.
 罗塞夫将暂时停职至多半年，其间由特梅尔担任代理总统。
 If two-thirds of the senate’s 81 members vote to impeach her in a session expected by the opposition to be held in late June, Mr Temer will lead the country until the next elections in 2018.
 反对派预计参议院6月末将举行一次投票，如果81名参议员中有三分之二支持弹劾罗塞夫，特梅尔将直接出任巴西领导人，直到2018年的下次大选。
 During the coming month, however, Ms Rousseff will still be president and will be able to use her office to try to persuade the senate to reject the impeachment motion by offering jobs and other financial incentives, opposition politicians fear.
 但在接下来的一个月里，罗塞夫仍将担任巴西总统，并能够利用她的职位来努力说服参议院否决弹劾动议，条件是提供工作岗位和其他经济奖励，这令反对派政治人士感到担心。
