Paris remains eerily quiet. Straight after the terrorist attacks, on November 13, the tourists disappeared. Now, in grey January, the world’s formerly most visited city still feels empty. In the silence, Parisians can gauge where the attacks have left us.
巴黎依然安静得出奇。去年11月13日的恐怖袭击之后，游客消失了。如今，在灰色的1月，这个以前全球游客最多的城市仍然感觉空荡荡的。在沉默中，巴黎人掂量着恐袭给自己造成的影响。
My office is in the eastern 11th arrondissement, focal point of both sets of 2015 attacks. The little local post office now has a full-time guard to check customers’ bags. A few doors down, the Belle Equipe café — where 19 people were murdered in November — is boarded up, to reopen God knows when. My favourite local restaurant is offering an unchanging daily menu all week, presumably because with almost no customers there’s little point buying food every day. But you can get a table any time, and eating is still much of the point of Paris, so you sit there instinctively calculating where you’d run if gunmen walked in.
我的办公室位于巴黎东部第11大区，是2015年两次恐怖袭击的发生地。当地的小邮局现在配备了一位全职保安，检查客户的包包。走过几个门，就到了11月有19人遇难的Belle Equipe咖啡馆，这里现在被木板封住，天知道何时才恢复营业。我最喜爱的一家当地餐厅菜单整周不变，大概是因为几乎没有客人，每天买菜已没有意义。但任何时候你都能找到空桌，饮食仍然是巴黎生活的一件重要事情，因此你坐在那里，本能地思忖如果有枪手走进来，你要往哪跑。
Perversely, the horrors have helped give Paris’s east side an identity. The historically poorer east, even after gentrification, was always the neglected Paris. It ranked below les beaux quartiers (“the beautiful neighbourhoods” in the west and on the Left Bank), just as Brooklyn ranked below Manhattan. The local Place de la République, for decades a big roundabout with a dirty old statue of Marianne, symbol of the republic, was Paris’s drabbest square.
变态的是，恐怖事件帮助巴黎东部获得了一种身份认同。自古以来，东部地区较为贫困，即便在中产阶级化之后也是巴黎受到忽视的部分。它的地位低于几个美丽的邻近地区（包括位于西部和左岸的“美丽地段”），就像布鲁克林的地位低于曼哈顿那样。几十年来，当地的共和国广场(Place de la République)是一个大型环岛，矗立着脏脏的法兰西共和国象征玛丽安娜(Marianne)的旧雕像，是巴黎最没有生气的广场。
But last year’s attacks targeted the east’s nightlife, its partially Jewish heritage and its bohemian classes as represented by Charlie Hebdo magazine. The evening of the Charlie attacks last January, thousands of people filled République — which, by chance, had recently been redesigned. The crowd chanted, “Liberty of expression!” (only in Paris) and honoured the murdered cartoonists. Days later, western heads of government shuffled east together from République down the unlovely Boulevard Voltaire, looking terrified.
但去年的恐袭瞄准了东部地区的夜生活、其一定程度上的犹太传统以及以《查理周刊》(Charlie Hebdo)为代表的放荡不羁的阶层。去年1月《查理周刊》恐袭当晚，数千人涌入共和国广场，碰巧的是，那个广场刚被重新设计。人群高唱“言论自由！”（只是在巴黎），向遇难的漫画家致敬。几天后，西方政府首脑手挽手从共和国广场向东走上伏尔泰大道(Boulevard Voltaire)，神色恐惧。
République is now again a site of pilgrimage. In the evenings you see people lighting candles around the statue, scrawling the strangest messages, or singing John Lennon’s “Imagine”. The poet Jacques Prévert said of late 1940s Saint-Germain, “Perhaps it takes a war to launch a quartier.” Now terrorism has launched République.
共和国广场现在再次变成了一个朝圣之地。晚上，你会看到人们在玛丽安娜雕像周围点燃蜡烛，写下最奇怪的留言或者唱起约翰列侬(John Lennon)的《想象》(Imagine)。诗人雅克渠莱维尔(Jacques Prévert)在谈到上世纪40年代末的圣日耳曼时表示：“或许这需要一场战争来创建一个地区。”如今，恐怖主义创建了共和国广场。
But eastern Paris is scared. Two days after the November attacks, the ringleader Abdelhamid Abaaoud boasted (according to a witness) that “there will be other [attacks]”. These “would do even worse in the neighbourhoods near the Jews”, including “diversions on transport and in the schools”. Perhaps this was just a terrorist pipe dream but it’s stressful if you have kids in local schools. Parents and the headmaster of our school are currently debating whether or not we need an armed policeman in front.
但巴黎东部感到恐慌。在11月恐袭两天后，主谋阿卜杜勒哈米德阿巴伍德(Abdelhamid Abaaoud)曾夸耀称（据一位目击者称）“还会有别的‘袭击’”。“在邻近犹太人的地区会更严重”，包括“对交通和学校的佯攻”。或许这只是恐怖分子的白日梦，但如果你的孩子在当地学校上学的话，你会感到紧张力了。我们家孩子学校的家长们和校长正在辩论是否需要申请在校门口安排一名佩枪的警察。
The new fear overlies the longstanding French morosité: national discontent with the country’s path (or lack of path). Over lunch recently, I listened to a high-status Parisian deliver the ritual rant about the government that ends with, “C’est n’importe quoi” (roughly, “It’s a mess”). I’ve been hearing this speech since moving to Paris in 2002 but, for the first time, I thought: “Yes, it really is that bad.”
新的担忧叠加在法国的长期愁云上：对国家道路（或者说没有道路）的全国性不满。在最近的一次午餐中，我听到一位身份很高的巴黎人针对法国政府发泄老一套的抱怨，最后说“这是个烂摊子”。自2002年我搬到巴黎以来，我一直在听这种演讲，但这一次我终于认为：“没错，真的有那么糟糕。”
I had previously believed French morosité was exaggerated. True, France was struggling, but so were all western nations after the crisis of 2008. Now, though, France is doing worse than others. Before, it could look at Italy and think, “There’s a country that really hasn’t adjusted to modernity.” But, lately, Italy has reformed its rigid labour market, cutting unemployment. So has Spain. France has done much less, so far at least.
我曾认为法国的愁云被夸大了。没错，法国苦撑了几年，但2008年金融危机后的西方国家都是如此。然而，法国当下的表现比其他国家更糟糕。以前，它可以看着意大利，心里想：“还有一个国家真的没有适应现代性。”但意大利近来改革了本国僵化的劳动力市场，降低了失业率。西班牙也是如此。法国在这方面做得少很多——至少迄今如此。
The brainy people who run this country mostly know what needs changing. In the office of one senior government aide, I saw a whiteboard on which someone had written a sort of national mea culpa, in English: “If it moves, tax it. If it still moves, regulate it. If it doesn’t move, subsidise it.”
统治这个国家的聪明人士基本上了解什么方面需要改变。在一位政府高级助理的办公室，我看到一块白板，有人在上面用英文写了一段类似国民自嘲的话：“如果动，就对它收税。如果还动，就进行监管。如果不动了，就给它补贴。”
...
……
But French governments dare not reform. They presume (perhaps rightly) that most French voters think that the status quo is terrible but must never be changed. And so unemployment keeps rising, recently reaching a new record of 3.59 million. Now President Hollande has come up with a brilliant scheme to cut joblessness: shift 500,000 unemployed people into training programmes.
但法国政府不敢改革。他们假定（或许是正确的）大多数法国选民认为，虽然现状很糟糕，但绝不能改变。因此，失业率持续上升，最近达到了创纪录的359万。如今，总统弗朗索瓦攠朗德( Hollande)想出了一个减少失业的妙计：将50万失业人士转移至培训项目。
Another brilliant Hollande scheme (soon backtracked from, like most Hollande schemes) was to strip convicted dual-national terrorists of French citizenship. This fantastically pointless gesture has already spawned weeks of furious debate. Meanwhile, the land of liberty lives under a state of emergency expected to continue (according to prime minister Manuel Valls) until Isis is defeated. Even George W Bush didn’t go that far after the attacks of 9/11.
奥朗德的另一项妙计（像他的多数计划那样，很快就被放弃）是剥夺被判有罪的、拥有双重国籍的恐怖分子的法国国籍。这一几乎毫无意义的举动已经引发了数周的激烈辩论。与此同时，总理曼努埃尔瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)表示，这块自由之地上的紧急状态还将持续，直至“伊斯兰国”(ISIS)被击溃。即使美国前总统乔治圠布什(George W Bush)在9/11恐怖袭击之后也没有做得这么极端。
Add on the damage from terror to race relations, plus the first fall in French life expectancy since 1969, and no wonder France’s far right is at a postwar high. Next year’s election may pit Hollande and former president Nicolas Sarkozy — two bad films we’ve already seen — against the far right’s Marine Le Pen, a horror movie that surely won’t get made.
恐怖袭击破坏了种族关系，加上法国人的预期寿命出现了自1969年以来的首次下降，这也难怪法国极右势力达到了战后的高点。明年大选，我们或许将看到奥朗德、前总统尼古拉萨科齐(Nicolas Sarkozy)——我们已经看过的两场糟糕电影——对垒极右翼的马琳勒庞(Marine Le Pen)——令人不堪设想的恐怖电影。
For now we sit in cafés, enjoying what is still the best daily life in human history, and hope that one day we will look back and think: and just at that moment of maximum bleakness, France turned itself around.
现在，我们坐在咖啡馆里，享受人类历史上最美好的日常生活，并希望有一天我们可以回顾并思考：正是在最黯淡的时刻，法国实现了转变。
