 The political exploitation of the Brussels terrorist attacks is well under way. British Eurosceptics have long said in private that two major events could reshape the EU referendum campaign: a ramping up of the migration crisis and a terrorist attack. The former is expected to happen in the next few weeks and the latter has sadly now happened. The dynamics of the campaign are likely to change as a consequence.
 有些人正在利用布鲁塞尔恐怖袭击事件在政治上大做文章。长期以来，英国的欧洲怀疑论者一直私下表示，可能改变英国去留欧盟公投结果的有两类重大事件：移民危机加剧、爆发恐怖袭击。前者预计将在未来几周内出现，而后者不幸已经发生了。因此，本次英国公投的走向很可能要发生改变。
 However distasteful it might seem to begin discussing the political implications so soon after Tuesday’s dreadful events, anti-EU campaigners were quick off the mark. On the political right, the columnist Allison Pearson was quick to tweet: “Brussels, de facto capital of the EU, is also the jihadist capital of Europe. And the Remainers dare to say we’re safer in the EU!”
 不论在周二的骇人事件发生后如此之快地开始讨论其政治影响多么令人反感，反欧盟运动人士已经迅速行动起来。在政治右翼方面，专栏作家埃里森•皮尔森(Allison Pearson)很快就在Twitter上发帖称：“布鲁塞尔——欧盟事实上的首都——已成为欧洲圣战者的首都。留欧支持者居然还敢说我们留在欧盟更安全！”
 On the left, George Galloway, the leader of the Respect party, offered up his hot take: “Those who rule us built this monstrous extremism, and continue to sustain it, in Syria and elsewhere. And their policies feed its blood-lust.” As is often the case with Mr Galloway, the west is to blame.
 在左翼，Respect党的领导人乔治•葛拉维(George Galloway)表达了自己的激进看法：“是那些统治我们的人在叙利亚及其他地区制造了这种骇人的极端主义，而且使之继续维系。他们的政策换来了极端主义的血腥杀戮。”葛拉维一贯认为，该受到责备的是西方。
 It is not just armchair Brexiteers who have sought to score political points: elected representatives eagerly spouted opinions too. Mike Hookem, the UK Independence party’s defence spokesman, released a statement 90 minutes after the first bomb went off, blaming the EU. “This horrific act of terrorism shows that Schengen free movement and lax border controls are a threat to our security,” he said. “There are 94 returned jihadis currently living in Molenbeek, Brussels. This fact alone should alert people to the fact that open borders are putting the lives of European citizens at risk.”
 跳出来的不光是那些曾试图捞取政治资本、纸上谈兵的支持英国退欧人士：民选代表也急切地诉说自己的看法。第一次爆炸发生90分钟后，英国独立党(UK Independence Party)的国防发言人麦克•胡凯姆(Mike Hookem)就发表了一份指责欧盟的声明。“此番令人震惊的恐怖主义行径表明，申根区人员自由流动以及松懈的边境管控对我们的安全是一种威胁，”他说，“有94名回流的圣战分子目前居住在布鲁塞尔的莫伦贝克(Molenbeek)区。仅此一项事实就应该警示人们，开放边界正在将欧洲公民的生命置于危险之中。”
 Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, tweeted that he was “upset by the events in Brussels”, as well as sharing an article with the remark: “Next time you hear PM say that Britain must remain in the EU for the sake of our security please think of Brussels.” He did not reach the crassness of Mr Hookem’s eager remarks but the sentiment was the same.
 独立党领导人奈杰尔•法拉奇(Nigel Farage)在Twitter上表示，他对“布鲁塞尔发生的事件感到不安”，同时还分享了一篇文章并评论称：“下次如果你们听到首相说，为了我们的安全英国必须留在欧盟，请想一想布鲁塞尔。”虽然他的言辞不像胡凯姆的评论那样愚蠢且无同情心，但态度是一样的。
 Over the coming weeks, some anti-EU campaigners will point to Tuesday’s events as an example of how Britain’s EU membership is no guarantee of security against a terrorist attack. Brexiteers have been trying to argue that staying in is more dangerous than leaving: the events in Brussels gives them ammunition for this.
 未来几周，一些反欧盟运动人士将以周二的事件为例，说明欧盟成员国这一身份并不能保证英国免遭恐怖袭击。支持英国退欧的人士一直试图说服人们相信，留在欧盟比退出更危险：布鲁塞尔恐怖袭击为他们提供了“弹药”。
 A good example of this was a release that landed in my Inbox on Wednesday morning. It came from Arron Banks, chairman of the Leave.EU campaign. “There’s virtually nothing we can do to stop every Islamist sympathiser in Molenbeek from setting up shop in the UK if they so choose, provided they can flash an EU passport on their way in,” Mr Banks wrote. “When will it be time to take our heads out of the sand and hold them to account? After the referendum, when it’s too late to change direction, and we see blood on British streets again?”
 这方面的一个很好的例子是周三上午我收到的一封电子邮件。邮件发自英国退欧运动(Leave.EU)主席阿伦•班克斯(Arron Banks)。“我们实际上没有任何手段可以阻止任何一名莫伦贝克的伊斯兰支持者在英国制造恐怖活动——只要他们愿意，因为他们入境时只需亮一下自己的欧盟护照就可以了，”班克斯写道，“我们何时才能不再把头埋在沙子里，并追究他们的责任？公投之后，再改变方向将为时已晚，难道我们还要在英国街头再次看到流血吗？”
 The Remain camp will attempt to use the security argument too, saying that more co-operation is the only way to fight terrorism. But when voters see the images from Brussels, many of them will think of border security and pulling up the drawbridge. This EU referendum offers an opportunity for British voters to voice concerns about their role in the world and what has happened will undoubtedly influence the outcome.
 支持留欧的阵营也将尝试利用安全这个理由，称加强合作才是打击恐怖主义的唯一途径。但当投票民众看到布鲁塞尔的照片时，他们中许多人将想到边界安全，并选择拉起吊桥。此次去留欧盟的公投将为英国民众提供一个机会，让他们能够对自身在世界的角色表达担忧，刚刚发生的事件无疑将影响公投结果。
