Hillary Clinton created “security risks” by using a personal email account and private email server when she was secretary of state, according to a sharply critical report by the state department that could hound her in the tightening presidential election campaign.
美国国务院一份措辞严厉的报告称，希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在担任国务卿期间使用个人电子邮件账户和私人电子邮件服务器的行为，引发了“安全风险”，这件事可能在紧张的总统竞选中困扰她。
The department’s inspector-general, an internal watchdog, said Mrs Clinton had not sought legal approval to conduct official business on the server she installed in her New York home. It also said security officials would not have sanctioned the practice in part because of “the security risks of doing so”.
美国国务院的内部监督部门——国务院监察长办公室表示，希拉里并没有就利用其安装在纽约家里的服务器处理公务寻求法律批准。报告还称，安全官员不会批准这种做法，部分原因就在于“这么做的安全风险”。
Donald Trump, the likely Republican presidential candidate, has used Mrs Clinton’s use of the private email server as fodder for attacks against an opponent he has dubbed “Crooked Hillary”. An average of polls shows Mr Trump narrowly leading his Democratic rival.
基本锁定共和党总统候选人提名的唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)，已经把希拉里使用私人电邮服务器当作把柄，攻击这名被他戏称为“不诚实的希拉里”的政治对手。最近几项民调的平均结果显示特朗普小幅领先他的民主党对手。
Although the email controversy has raged for months, the findings are the first conclusions from an official investigation. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is still conducting its own inquiry, which could ultimately lead to criminal charges. In recent weeks, the FBI has interviewed top Clinton aides, including longtime adviser Huma Abedin, but has yet to interview Mrs Clinton.
虽然这场电邮争议已经发酵了几个月，但这是官方调查首次作出定论。联邦调查局(FBI)仍在进行调查，最终可能导致刑事指控。最近几周，FBI对希拉里的高级助理进行了问讯，包括长期顾问胡玛•阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)，但尚未对希拉里本人进行问讯。
Brian Fallon, her campaign spokesman, said while Republicans would use the report to attack Mrs Clinton, it proved her “use of personal email was not unique, and she took steps that went much further than others to appropriately preserve and release her records”.
希拉里竞选团队发言人布赖恩•法伦(Brian Fallon)表示，尽管共和党方面将利用这份报告来攻击希拉里，但报告证明她“不是使用个人电邮的唯一官员，而且她采取了相关步骤，在妥善保存和交出自己的记录方面比其他人到位得多”。
While the report found no evidence of illegal activity, the conclusions will fuel concerns within her own party that Mrs Clinton is perceived as untrustworthy. A recent CBS-New York Times poll found two-thirds of voters do not believe Mrs Clinton is “honest and trustworthy” — though a similar number said the same thing about Mr Trump.
虽然这份报告没有发现违法活动的证据，但它得出的结论会加剧民主党内部的担忧，即希拉里给人的印象是不可信任。哥伦比亚广播公司-纽约时报(CBS-New York Times)最近进行的一项民调发现，三分之二的选民不认为希拉里是“诚实和可信任的”，尽管近似比例的选民对特朗普也有相同看法。
Reince Priebus, Republican National Committee chairman, said the report proved that Mrs Clinton “hasn’t been telling the truth since day one”.
共和党全国委员会(RNC)主席雷恩斯•普瑞巴斯(Reince Priebus)表示，这份报告证明希拉里“从第一天开始一直没有说真话”。
While previous secretaries of state, including Colin Powell, used personal email for business on occasion, Mrs Clinton was unique in relying on a private server. The investigation said she should have turned over her work-related emails when she stepped down in 2013. She did not provide them until 2014, after intense public pressure.
尽管以往的国务卿——包括科林•鲍威尔（Colin Powell，2001年至2005年担任小布什政府国务卿——译者注）——偶尔利用个人电子邮件开展公务，但希拉里在依靠私人服务器方面是唯一的。调查称，她本应在2013年离职后马上移交与工作相关的电子邮件。结果她只是在受到强烈舆论压力后，在2014年才交出这些邮件。
Mrs Clinton has repeatedly defended her actions, saying she never emailed any information marked “classified”. The report said she had refused to be questioned as part of its investigation.
希拉里一再辩解自己的行为，称她从未通过电子邮件发送任何标有“机密”的信息。报告称，她拒绝作为调查的一部分接受质询。
Though the FBI probe is not expected to lead to criminal charges, James Comey, the FBI director, recently said he felt “pressure” to finish the investigation given its political ramifications.
虽然FBI的调查预计不至于导致刑事指控，但该局局长詹姆斯•科米(James Comey)最近表示，他感受到“压力”，要求他考虑该案的政治影响，尽快完成调查。
Even if the justice department decides not to prosecute based on the FBI findings, Mrs Clinton faces other probes. Her campaign hopes all of the probes will be wrapped up ahead of the election to damp the attacks from Mr Trump.
即使司法部决定不根据FBI的调查结果提起公诉，希拉里还面临着其他调查。她的竞选团队希望，各项调查都能在大选之前落下帷幕，以便抵挡特朗普的攻击。
