 Hillary Clinton promised Monday that if she wins the race for the White House, half of her Cabinet will be composed of women.
 希拉里·克林顿25日承诺，如果她在总统竞选中获胜，那么她的内阁将有半数成员是女性。
 During MSNBC's town hall with Clinton Monday night, host Rachel Maddow asked the former secretary of state how her Cabinet might look, citing Canada's new Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who picked an equal number of women and men for his Cabinet following his election in November.
 周一晚，在微软全国广播公司的一档节目上，主持人雷切尔·玛多引用加拿大新总理贾斯汀·特鲁多的例子（特鲁多11月当选之后，内阁成员中男女比例均等），问前国务卿希拉里，她将如何组阁。
 “[Trudeau] promised when he took office that he would have a cabinet that was 50 percent women, and then he did it. He made good on his promise,” Maddow said. “Would you make that same pledge?”
 玛多问道：“特鲁多承诺在上任之后，内阁中将有50%是女性。他兑现了承诺。那么你也会做出类似承诺吗？”
 “I am going to have a Cabinet that looks like America, and 50 percent of America is women,” Clinton replied.
 希拉里回答：“我组建的内阁也会反映出美国的现状，有半数美国人都是女性。”
 Maddow then asked Clinton if that was a “yes,” to which Clinton nodded.
 玛多问希拉里，这算不算是“肯定”答案，她点点头。
 Clinton has indicated before that she's in favor of a Cabinet with equal parts of men and women. Earlier this month, she told Cosmopolitan that since “we are a 50-50 country, I would aim for a 50-50 Cabinet.”
 之前希拉里也曾暗示自己倾向于一个男女比例平衡的内阁。本月初，她告诉《大都会》：“我们是一个男女比例相当的国家，我也会力争组建一个男女平衡的内阁。”
 If Clinton is elected as president, it would be a historic first for the nation. Her campaign has also indicated that she could make history again by choosing a female running mate — perhaps even Sen. Elizabeth Warren, which The Boston Globe floated as a possibility in a recent article.
 希拉里若是当选美国总统，这对美国来说将会是历史性的一刻。同时，她参加总统竞选还暗示着，她会挑选一名女性作为她的竞选伙伴，从而再次创造历史。《波士顿环球报》在最近发表的一篇文章中指出，她的竞选伙伴可能是参议员伊莉莎白·华伦。
 A gender-balanced Cabinet would be another historic first for the country. President Barack Obama's current Cabinet is made up of about 25 percent women.
 男女比例相近的内阁也将创造美国历史新记录。现任总统贝拉克·奥巴马的内阁成员中女性约占总人数的25%。
 While a strong majority of Americans — 75 percent — say women and men make equally good political leaders, women remain underrepresented in “virtually all” elected offices in the nation, a recent Pew study found.
 一份新发布的皮尤研究报告指出，尽管绝大多数美国人（75%）认为，女性和男性一样，都能够成为优秀的政治领袖，但是，女性在几乎所有的国内选举活动中仍然会被忽视。
 The first female Cabinet member was Francis Perkins, appointed as secretary of labor by Democratic President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1933. But it would take 20 years for the second woman to get a Cabinet position, when Oveta Culp Hobby was appointed as the nation's first secretary of health, education and welfare.
 第一位女性内阁成员是弗朗西丝·珀金斯，她于1933年由民主党总统富兰克林·罗斯福任命为劳工部部长。但是，时隔20年之后才出现第二位女性内阁成员，在1953年，奥维塔·卡尔普·霍比被任命为美国卫生、教育和福利部首任部长。
