Imagine walking into a room of strangers knowing your clothes could keep you calm, or wearing a jacket that could cheer you up after a breakup.
想象一下，你走进一间屋子，里面都是陌生人，但你知道你的衣服可以让你保持冷静，或在分手后，你身上穿的夹克能让你高兴。
That's the dream of Microsoft, which has described such a piece of futuristic clothing in a patent.
这就是微软的梦想，它在专利申请中描绘了这种未来衣服的样子。
It shows a 'mood shirt' that reads a wearer's emotions then stimulates their nervous system in a way that can either cheer them up or calm them down.
微软展示了一款“情绪衬衫”，它能读懂用户情绪，刺激神经系统，让他们高兴起来或冷静下来。
It explained the gadget is designed to 'provide a user with a cost effective, reliable and easy to use way to enhance their physical health and mental well-being and enhance their success in communicating and/or negotiating with other people.'
微软解释称，设计这一可穿戴设备是为了“给用户提供一个节约成本的、简单可靠的方式来增进身心健康，促使与他人成功交流或协商。”
It is also suggested it could be especially useful for elderly people as well as those with disabilities and autism.
微软也表示，这款衣服可能对残疾人、自闭症患者和老人特别有用。
In essence, a system of sensors inside the garment read the wearer's heart rate, skin temperature and measure the movements they make.
其实，衣服里装了传感器系统，可读取用户的心率、皮肤的温度，监测其行为动作。
In the patent, published by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, it says these sensors are connected to a system of actuators sitting close to the skin so they are able to create a feeling of pressure – like a hug – heat and coolness or generate vibrations or music.
美国专利商标局发布了这项专利。专利中说，这些传感器和贴近皮肤的一个致动器系统相连接，因而能制造出压力的感觉，比如拥抱的感觉，还能调节冷热、产生震动或播放音乐。
Actuators could be chosen to suit a person's needs.
可以根据个人需要选择致动器。
For example, an autistic user could benefit from a micro pump to apply pressure on their wrist, for example, which is a technique used by some to relieve the stress of sensory overload.
比如，自闭症用户可以通过一个微型泵给手腕施加压力，从而减轻情感负荷。有些人就靠按压手腕来减压，这么做对自闭症患者有好处。
Equally, the item of clothing could switch on cooling actuators if it thought a wearer was getting hot and flustered on a date, for example, or play a happy song from a minute speaker, if it sensed they were sad.
同样，举个例子，如果用户在约会的时候，衣服感应到他燥热难安，就会开启冷却致动器，如果用户难过，它就用一个微型音箱放首快乐的歌。
It goes on to say the system could be used to convey the state of people nearby – but it doesn't explain how a piece of clothing could obtain data about a stranger.
微软还说，这一系统可用于捕捉附近的人的情绪状态——但没有解释这款衣服如何获得陌生人数据。
'This alternate implementation …allows the user to reflect on and react to the current affective state of these other people, and informs the user when and how the affective state of these other people changes.'
“通过这个额外功能，用户可以对其他人当下的情感状态做出反思和回应，并得知这些人的情感状态是何时发生变化、如何变化的。”
Like every patent, there is no guarantee the technology described will ever become a reality.
像每个专利一样，这项专利并没有保证上述这项技术会成为现实。
