Scores of alleged sexual assaults against German women during New Year’s celebrations in Cologne have added another dimension to the country’s increasingly fraught debate over migration.
在德国科隆庆祝新年之际，该市据称发生了数十起针对德国女性的性侵。这件事为德国围绕移民问题展开的、愈发令人烦恼的辩论增添了新变数。
The attackers emerged from a crowd of about a thousand young men of “Arab or north African” appearance who had gathered outside the city’s main railway station on Thursday night, according to police reports.
警方的报告称，上周四晚，科隆市主要火车站的外面聚集了约一千名“阿拉伯人或北非人”长相的年轻男子，性侵者就来自这群人。
As partygoers poured into the city, women were set upon, often by drunken assailants, said the police. One was allegedly raped and about 90 were allegedly molested or robbed. Other revellers were injured by fireworks thrown into the crowds.
警方表示，当参加派对的人涌进科隆时，有女性遭到攻击，攻击者多为醉汉。据称一名女性遭到强奸，约90名女性遭到性骚扰或抢劫。还有一些狂欢者被扔进人群的烟花所伤。
As news of the episode spread through Germany, chancellor Angela Merkel urged that the perpetrators of the “disgusting assaults” be brought to justice as quickly as possible “without regard to their origin or their background”.
随着关于这件事的新闻传遍全国，德国总理安格拉默克尔(Angela Merkel)敦促尽快将做出“令人恶心的侵犯行为”的肇事者绳之以法，“不管他们是什么出身或是什么背景”。
Justice minister Heiko Maas on Tuesday condemned the seemingly co-ordinated attack as “a completely new dimension of organised crime”.
周二，德国司法部长海科氠斯(Heiko Maas)谴责了这一似乎是协调一致的攻击行动，称之为“全新水平的有组织犯罪”。
The assaults come at a time when many Germans are questioning the country’s ability to cope with the more than 1m asylum seekers who arrived last year.
此次攻击发生之际，许多德国人开始质疑本国是否有能力应对去年到来的逾100万避难者。
Conservatives, in particular, have expressed concerns about how the recent surge of Middle Eastern refugees will affect social stability. Some right-wingers fear that the influx, which includes many single young men, could lead to increased crime, even though government officials say statistics show that crime rates among immigrants are no higher than among native Germans.
尤其值得一提的是，保守派人士对近来中东难民数量飙升会对社会稳定造成何种影响表示了担忧。有些右翼人士担心难民（其中包括大量单身年轻男子）的流入可能导致犯罪增多，尽管政府官员表示统计数据显示移民的犯罪率并不高于土生土长的德国人。
A leading MP in chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservative CDU/CSU bloc on Tuesday called for an open debate on links between immigration and crime. Stephan Mayer, CSU interior affairs spokesman, said it would be “fatal” to remain silent when such crimes came from those people “to whom we have granted a generous welcome in our country”.
周二，默克尔所在的保守派基民盟/基社盟(CDU/CSU)联盟中的一位知名国会议员呼吁，就移民与犯罪之间的联系展开公开辩论。基社盟内部事务发言人斯特凡迈尔(Stephan Mayer)表示，当那些“被我们慷慨地迎入国门的”人犯下如此罪行时，如果仍然保持沉默，将带来“致命的”后果。
Meanwhile, Jens Spahn, a CDU deputy minister, criticised the apparent delay in the media reporting the incident that made national headlines only on Tuesday — four days after the assault. In a tweet he condemned the “embarrassed silence”, asking: “Where really is the outcry when we genuinely need one?”
同时，来自基民盟的副部长延斯施潘(Jens Spahn)对媒体在报道该事件方面存在的明显滞后提出了批评。这件事在发生4天后的本周二才成为全国性的头条新闻。施潘在Twitter上发帖谴责了这种“令人难堪的沉默”，并问道：“当我们真正需要抗议声时，它到底在哪儿？”
But other politicians urged caution. Interior minister Thomas de Maizière, a close CDU ally of Ms Merkel, warned that even though the crime was said to involve “such a large number of people apparently from an immigrant background”, immigrants as a whole should not be placed under “general suspicion”.
但也有一些政治人士呼吁小心行事。默克尔在基民盟内的亲密盟友、德国内政部长托马斯德迈齐埃(Thomas de Maizière)警告称，尽管这起犯罪据说涉及“如此众多明显具有移民背景的人”，但移民作为一个整体不应受到“普遍怀疑”。
Aware of the sensitivities, Cologne police chief Wolfgang Albers on Tuesday made clear there were as yet no suspects, and so no question of categorising them by ethnic origin.
由于意识到其中的敏感性，科隆警察局局长沃尔夫冈阿尔贝斯(Wolfgang Albers)周二明确表示，目前尚未找到嫌犯，所以不存在将他们按照人种进行分类的问题。
However, he said the police officers on duty on New Year’s Eve had reported that young men aged 18-35 from the “Arab-North African area” had gathered before the station on Thursday night. Assault victims had described their assailants in similar terms, he said.
不过，他表示，在新年前夜值班的警官们报告称，上周四晚，火车站前聚集了很多18岁至35岁、来自“阿拉伯和北非地区”的年轻男子。他说，受害者描述的攻击者特征与此相仿。
Marianne Weich, a Cologne representative of White Ring, a crime victims’ support group, warned against pandering to stereotypes and blaming the men’s apparent Muslim origins. “We have many Muslims in multicultural Cologne,” she told the FT. “These were drunken criminals.”
犯罪受害人援助组织White Ring驻科隆代表玛丽安娜传希(Marianne Weich)警告称，不要迎合成见，不要归咎于那些人明显具备的穆斯林出身。“在文化多元的科隆，生活着大量穆斯林，”她对英国《金融时报》表示，“而那些人是些喝醉了的犯罪分子。”
