Angela Merkel’s government has proposed sweeping changes to Germany’s laws on immigrants that would allow the country to deport minors convicted of serious crimes.
安格拉默克尔(Angela Merkel)的政府提议全面修改德国针对移民的法律，使该国能够驱逐被判犯有严重罪行的未成年人。
The proposal is part of a tough legal package Berlin has hastily put together in response to public outrage over sex attacks in Cologne on New Year’s eve and widespread concern that asylum seekers from north Africa and the Middle East are among those responsible. The number of women alleging they were molested or robbed in the assaults has risen to more than 550.
这项提案是柏林方面仓促出炉的严厉法律对策的一部分，目的是回应公众对于跨年夜科隆发生的群体性侵事件的愤怒，以及各方对于作案者竟是来自北非及中东的寻求庇护者的普遍关注。声称自己在此次事件中被骚扰或抢劫的女性人数已升至逾550人。
Ahead of an emergency Bundestag debate scheduled for today on the Cologne attacks, Ms Merkel vowed that the new rules would be passed “as soon as possible”.
在德国联邦议院(Bundestag)今日就科隆事件举行紧急辩论前夕，默克尔誓言将“尽快”推动通过新规则。
The proposals would increase judges’ powers to deport foreign citizens convicted of serious crimes such as sex assaults. At present the courts can only order deportations when criminals are given custodial sentences of at least three years. The legal changes would allow deportations to go ahead for people given suspended sentences or jail-terms as short as one year, as well as for offenders aged under 18.
这项提案将增加法官的权力，使他们有权驱逐被判犯有严重罪行（如性侵犯）的外国公民。目前，法院只能在罪犯至少被判三年监禁的情况下才能发出驱逐令。修订后的法律将允许驱逐被判缓刑或仅一年监禁的人，以及不到18岁的罪犯。
Ms Merkel faces intense political pressure over the Cologne attacks, notably from her own CDU party and its sister, the Bavaria-based CSU, whose leader Horst Seehofer is the leading critic of Ms Merkel’s liberal approach to refugees. A sceptical CDU MP said: “Cologne has made the atmosphere more tense because things have become more urgent.”
默克尔在科隆事件上受到巨大政治压力，特别是来自她所在的政党基民盟(CDU)及其姊妹政党、总部位于巴伐利亚的基社盟(CSU)的压力；基社盟党魁霍斯特泽霍费尔(Horst Seehofer)带头批评默克尔对难民摆出的开明姿态。一名持怀疑态度的基民盟议员表示：“科隆事件使得气氛更加紧张，因为事情已变得更加紧迫。”
The rightwing Alternative für Deutschland has also jumped on the Cologne attacks to lambast what it depicts as the failure of the chancellor’s refugee policy — and demanded her resignation. While Muslim groups have raised fears of racist attacks, anti-immigration populists have taken to the streets, most recently yesterday in Leipzig — a demonstration followed by a brief violent rampage by rightwing extremists.
右翼的德国新选择党(Alternative für Deutschland)也抓住科隆事件，猛轰其所称的德国总理难民政策的失败，并要求默克尔辞职。尽管穆斯林团体表示对种族主义攻击感到恐惧，但是反对移民的民粹主义者已经走上街头，最近一次是昨日在莱比锡——他们举行了示威，之后右翼极端分子进行了短暂的暴力发泄。
But many lawyers warn the plan may have little practical impact since German courts can deport people to a limited range of states and only if the home government agrees and the convicted person has travel documents. Referring to such constraints, Hannelore Kraft, premier of North Rhine-Westphalia, which includes Cologne, said: “ These are all things that we must change.”
但许多律师警告称，政府的计划可能没有什么实际影响，因为德国法院只能把罪犯驱逐到有限的几个国家，而且必须是在获得对方国家政府同意、且被判犯罪的人持有旅行证件的情况下。科隆所在的北莱茵-威斯特法伦州的州长汉娜洛蕾克拉夫特(Hannelore Kraft)在谈到这些约束时表示：“这些都是我们必须改变的事情。”
