Germany is to push for progress towards a European army by advocating a joint headquarters and shared military assets, according to defence plans that could ricochet into Britain’s EU referendum campaign.
德国防务白皮书中的计划显示，德国将努力推动欧盟建立一支欧洲军队，它倡导欧盟各国建立一个联合司令部、共享军事资源。这些计划可能会影响到英国的退欧公投运动。
Although Berlin has long paid lip-service to forming a “European defence union”, the white paper is one of the most significant for Germany in recent years and may be seized by anti-integration Brexit campaigners as a sign where the bloc is heading.
尽管柏林方面早就倡导打造“欧洲防务联盟”，但对德国来说，这份白皮书是近些年来意义最重大的白皮书之一。反欧洲一体化的英国退欧运动人士可能会抓住这份白皮书，将之作为表明欧盟发展方向的一个迹象。
Initially scheduled to emerge shortly before the June 23 referendum vote but now probably delayed to July, the draft paper seen by the Financial Times outlines steps to gradually co-ordinate Europe’s patchwork of national militaries and embark on permanent co-operation under common structures.
白皮书原定在6月23日英国退欧公投前夕公布，但如今很可能会推迟到7月发布。英国《金融时报》看到的白皮书草案罗列出了一些举措，来逐渐协调欧洲零散的国家军事力量、并在共同框架下展开永久性合作。
In this and other areas, its tone reflects Germany’s growing clout and confidence in pursuing a foreign policy backed by elements of hard power. Initiatives range from strengthening cyberwarfare abilities to contentious proposals to relax the postwar restrictions on army operations within Germany.
在上述及其他领域，白皮书的腔调反映出，德国在追求硬实力元素支撑的外交政策方面，影响力和信心日益增强。白皮书列出的举措涵盖方方面面，包括加强网络战能力，以及一项有争议的提议——即放松二战后对军队在德国境内开展行动施加的限制。
“German security policy has relevance — also far beyond our country,” the paper states. “Germany is willing to join early, decisively and substantially as a driving force in international debates . . . to take responsibility and assume leadership”.
“德国的安全政策影响重大——而且其影响范围远超出我们的国家。”白皮书称，“德国愿意作为一支推动力量，尽早、坚决而切实地加入到国际辩论中来——承担责任并发挥领导作用。”
Jan Techau, a former defence official at Carnegie Europe, said: “This is the time of a new Germany. This is probably the first time a German defence white paper is something like important.”
前防务官员、卡内基欧洲(Carnegie Europe)的扬•特绍(Jan Techau)表示：“这是一个新德国的时代。德国防务白皮书很可能是第一次具有某种程度的重要性。”
At the European level, the paper calls for “the use of all possibilities” available under EU treaties to establish deep co-operation between willing member states, create a joint civil-military headquarters for EU operations, a council of defence ministers, and better co-ordinate the production and sharing of military equipment.
在欧洲层面，白皮书呼吁“利用（欧盟条约提供的）一切可能性”在有意愿的成员国之间建立深层次的合作，创建用于欧盟行动的联合司令部（即各国国防部长组成的委员会），并更好地协调军事装备的生产与共享。
“The more we Europeans are ready to take on a greater share of the common burden and the more our American partner is prepared to go along the road of common decision-making, the further the transatlantic security partnership will develop greater intensity and richer results,” the paper states.
“我们欧洲人越是准备好承担更大份额的共同责任，我们的美国伙伴越是准备好沿着共同决策的道路继续前进，跨大西洋安全合作关系就越有可能变得更加强大和取得更丰富的成果，”白皮书称。
Resistance to serious defence integration is well entrenched in many EU states and has hobbled efforts to make meaningful progress in common defence. Co-ordinated hard military power in Europe remains largely the preserve of Nato.
在很多欧盟国家，对正式防务一体化的抵触是根深蒂固的，这种情绪削弱了在共同防务方面取得重大进展的努力。在欧洲协调军事硬实力基本上仍是北约(Nato)的特权。
Liam Fox, former UK defence secretary and Brexit supporter, said that “many in the European project see Nato as an impediment to ever closer union”.
英国前防务大臣、退欧支持者利亚姆•福克斯(Liam Fox)表示，“许多投身欧洲一体化计划的人士，把北约视为阻碍建立更紧密联盟的一个因素”。
Mr Fox added: “Their every instinct is to move towards European defence co-operation. The problem is that while they are unwilling to spend money, it is a dangerous fantasy that diverts money away from Nato.”
