Shaban Khema, an IT manager from Kosovo, wants just one thing this festive season: to be able to stay in Germany. But his chances are slim, and getting slimmer.
沙班科玛(Shaban Khema)是一名来自科索沃的IT经理，这个节日季他只想要一样东西——可以留在德国。但他的机会十分微小，而且还在不断变小。
“If I have to go back it’s death for me,” the 32-year-old says. “My future is here, not in Kosovo.”
Mr Khema is a casualty of Germany’s tough new approach to migrants from the Balkans. While the country has thrown open its doors to refugees from the war in Syria, it is closing them for people from countries such as Albania and Kosovo. Thousands of immigrants, many of whom have lived here for months, now face deportation.
沙班是德国对巴尔干地区移民最新采取的强硬政策的牺牲品。德国在向叙利亚内战难民敞开国门的同时，对阿尔巴尼亚和科索沃等国的人关上了这道大门。成千上万名移民现在面临着驱逐出境，其中许多人已经在德国居住了好几个月。
The approach is the flipside of Berlin’s “Willkommenskultur”, or “welcome culture”, that was embodied in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s decision last September to bypass Europe’s asylum rules and allow thousands of refugees stuck on the Hungarian border to make their way to Germany. It was a move that split Europe and earned her stinging criticism from domestic opponents, who feared it would only encourage more uncontrolled immigration.
这一举措是柏林方面“欢迎文化”(Willkommenskultur)的另一面；“欢迎文化”体现于德国总理安格拉默克尔(Angela Merkel)今年9月作出的一个决定。当时默克尔决定绕过欧洲的庇护规则，允许滞留在匈牙利边境的成千上万难民进入德国。这一作法不但导致欧洲意见分歧，还为她招致了国内对手的严厉批评，他们担心这会鼓励更多不受控制的移民。
The Balkan strategy is in part a response to those critics. The idea is to reduce the influx by weeding out economic migrants and sending them home. Indeed, the number of repatriations has steadily risen: by the end of November, more than 18,000 people had been deported this year, compared with around 11,000 people in the whole of 2014.
遣返巴尔干移民的决策在一定程度上是对这些批评的回应，其意图是通过清查并遣返经济移民来减少移民总数。的确，遣返人数一直在稳步上升，截至11月底，今年已有1.8万人被递解出境，而2014年全年为1.1万人左右。
Yet in the grand scheme of things, it provides little relief. Germany is expected to have registered 1m asylum seekers by the end of the year, and new arrivals keep coming.
但在宏观层面上，该策略起不到什么缓解作用。至今年底，德国预计将登记100万寻求庇护者，新难民还在不断涌入。
Mr Khema, however, will not be among those allowed to stay. He and his wife and daughter were recently transported to a former US army barracks in the picturesque Bavarian town of Bamberg that has been turned into a camp for Balkan immigrants awaiting deportation.
但是在获准留下的移民群体中，将不会出现沙班的名字。他和妻女最近被送往班贝格(Bamberg)一座专为巴尔干移民准备的营地，等待被递解出境。这座移民营位于风景如画的巴伐利亚小镇，是由原美军军营改造的。
Visibly anxious, he has been in Germany for 10 months and dreads returning home. “It’s a catastrophe there,” he says. “You can only get a job or medical treatment if you pay a bribe.”
沙班的焦急显露无遗，他在德国已经待了10个月，惧怕回国。他说：“那儿现在一片衰败。你只有行贿才能得到一份工作或是获得治疗。”
The Bamberg camp was set up as Germany’s parliament toughened up the country’s asylum law by placing Kosovo, Albania and Montenegro on the list of “safe” countries of origin: asylum applications from these countries would henceforth be considered “patently unfounded”. Further changes replaced the cash payments migrants receive with benefits in kind, such as vouchers for consumer goods or bus tickets.
班贝格移民营的设立，是因为德国议会通过了更为严格的难民法案，将科索沃、阿尔巴尼亚和黑山共和国列入“安全的”原籍国名单，今后来自这些国家的庇护申请将被认为“显然毫无根据”。更多的改变包括将发放给移民的现金换成实物福利，比如购物代金券或车票。
Bamberg houses 850 refugees, most brought here from temporary hostels dotted across Bavaria or picked up by local police. It is a Spartan place: residents complain about the food and the meagre allowance of ㈠　　 a month.
班贝格现在容纳了850名难民，大多数人要么是从巴伐利亚州各地的临时旅馆带到这儿，要么是由当地警察送来的。这里条件艰苦，居民们对这里的食物和每月200欧元的微薄津贴都抱怨不已。
“A lot of people are leaving of their own free will because the conditions are so bad,” says Nazmi, an Albanian man in his twenties. “They give us salami three times a day, every day. You feel like an animal.”
20来岁的阿尔巴尼亚青年纳兹米(Nazmi)说：“许多人都自动离开了，因为这里的条件真是太差了。他们给我们每天的三顿饭都是萨拉米香肠，让人觉得自己像头动物。”
Local officials say things are not so bad. There is a school, playroom and medical centre while the Red Cross provides second-hand clothes. The accommodation may be crowded but at least it is warm and dry.
当地官员则表示情况并没有那么糟糕。这里有学校、游戏室和医疗中心，红十字会还提供旧衣服。居住环境可能有些拥挤，但至少温暖而干燥。
The camp is also, on one level, a propaganda tool.
在某种层面上，班贝格移民营也是个宣传工具。
“People come to Germany thinking they’ll get hundreds of euros, a plot of land, work,” says Stefan Krug, of the government of Upper Franconia, who is responsible for the site. “This facility should help to convey to the Balkan countries a realistic image of Germany.”
上弗兰肯区政府的斯特凡克鲁格(Stefan Krug)是这里的负责人，他说：“来德国的人以为会获得几百欧元，一块土地，还有工作。这个营地应该有助于向巴尔干国家传递德国的现实形象。”
Critics say that image is deliberately distorted. “It’s a system of deterrence, segregation, ghettoisation, which I thought wasn’t possible any more in Germany,” says Sylvia Schaible, who works in a local refugee charity.
批评者则表示这是一个被故意歪曲的形象。当地一家难民慈善组织的工作人员西尔维亚餠伊布勒(Sylvia Schaible)说：“这是一种吓阻、隔离、贫民窟话的体制，而我曾经以为这种体制不再可能在德国出现。”
Every new arrival at the facility is registered and interviewed by an official from Germany’s federal agency for migration, known as a “decider”. Those who have their asylum request rejected can appeal. If that fails, their case is handed to a government agency that arranges their return home. It used to take months to process asylum applications: Bamberg aims to get that down to around 10 working days. So far, no one at the camp has been allowed to stay in Germany.
每一个新进入这座移民营的人都要去登记，并接受德国联邦移民署一名官员——所谓的“裁决者”——的面试。避难申请被拒的人可以提出上诉，如上诉失败，他们的案子会被移交给一个政府机构，由其安排他们的遣返事宜。过去处理避难申请需要几个月时间，班贝格移民营的目标是将这一时长缩短至10个工作日左右。到目前为止，班贝格移民营还没有一人获准留在德国。
Mr Krug acknowledges that the mood in the camp is “pretty glum”.
负责人克鲁格承认班贝格移民营的气氛“相当阴沉”。
“People know why they’ve been sent here, and that it is highly likely they will get a negative decision,” he says.
Since the camp was opened in September, 463 residents have voluntarily returned home and 170 have been deported. The plan is to expand capacity to 1,500 by the end of the year and to 4,500 by next March. Germany will ultimately have as many as five such camps.
班贝格移民营自9月成立以来，已有463人自愿回国，170人被递解出境。该移民营计划至今年底将容量扩到1500人，明年3月扩大至4500人。德国最终将设立5个这样的移民营。
Raif Zelenkovic, a 20-something Bosnian from Tuzla, is bracing himself for bad news. Unlike most residents of the Bamberg camp he speaks fluent German — he spent six years here as a child in the 1990s, but his family then moved back to the Balkans. He returned to Germany last January — a country he considers home.
20多岁的波斯尼亚人拉伊夫泽伦科威克(Raif Zelenkovic)来自图兹拉(Tuzla)，他已经为坏消息做好了准备。与班贝格移民营里大多数人不同，他会说一口流利的德语，上世纪90年代他还是孩子时曾在德国生活过6年，后来他们一家又搬回巴尔干地区。今年1月他又回到德国，他认为这里才是自己的故乡。
“All I want is to be able to work here, I don’t want benefits,” he says. “I just want to be like other people. I need a future.”
