He's a true Hollywood Lothario.
他是真正的好莱坞浪子。
But while Johnny Depp's dating history is a who's who gallery of 'it girls' over the last four decades, he is also, famously, a romantic at heart.
尽管在过去的四十年中，约翰尼•德普一直不停地与各种魅力四射的明星美女谈恋爱，但是人们都知道他在内心深处是个浪漫的人。
Depp, now 52, has been married twice, suffered three failed engagements, and even got the name of Winona Ryder tattooed on his arm in a grand romantic gesture after starring with her in 1990's Edward Scissorhands.
现年52岁的德普结过两次婚，经历过三次失败的订婚，甚至还把其中一位未婚妻薇诺娜•瑞德的名字纹在他的手臂上。德普和薇诺娜合作拍摄了1990年电影《剪刀手爱德华》，之后他就做出了这一经典的浪漫举动。
Amid news of the star's second wife Amber Heard filing for divorce earlier this week, Daily Mail Online offers a unique look back at the film icon's history of celebrity relationships.
德普的第二任妻子艾梅柏•希尔德本周早些时候提出离婚的消息已经传开，借此机会，我们跟着《每日邮报》从独特的视角来回顾这位影坛偶像和明星美女们的恋爱史。
Johnny tied the knot for the first time when he was just 20 years old in 1983.
1983年，德普第一次结婚，当时他才20岁。
The budding actor and musician married Lori Anne Allison, a makeup artist, who he met through a fellow band member of Rock City Angels.
那时候德普还是演艺界和音乐界新人，他的第一任妻子是化妆师罗莉•安妮•艾莉森，他们是通过摇滚城市天使乐队的一名成员结识的。
Lori introduced Depp to Nicholas Cage, who set the then guitar player on the road to becoming an actor.
罗莉将当时正在摇滚城市天使乐队做吉他手的德普介绍给了尼古拉斯•凯奇，在尼古拉斯的引荐下，德普开始做演员。
The couple divorced in 1985. The future star had yet to get a break in Hollywood and would only later, in 1987, make a splash on television in 21 Jump Street.
他们俩于1985年离婚。德普当时还未在好莱坞崭露头角，直到1987年才凭借电视剧《龙虎少年队》一炮而红。
However, he did initially gain a role in Thrashin' before being dumped by the producer.
那时候他曾经获得过电影《Thrashin'》中的一个角色，但后来被制片人刷掉。
Auditioning for the same film was his next fiancee Sherilyn Fenn, who herself went on to create a successful career in television. Fenn also famously dated Prince.
一起参加这部电影试镜的雪琳•芬后来成为了他的下一任未婚妻。雪琳•芬后来拍了多部成功的电视剧，还曾经公开和“王子”普林斯约会。
Depp was also briefly engaged to Jennifer Grey, who enjoyed a thriving acting career in the 1980s with films like Ferris Bueller's Day Off and Dirty Dancing.
德普还曾经和詹妮弗•格雷订婚，不过只维持了很短的时间。詹妮弗•格雷在20世纪80年代演艺事业蒸蒸日上，拍过电影《春天不是读书天》和《辣身舞》。
But the future Jack Sparrow went on to propose to his Edward Scissorhands co-star Winona Ryder in 1990.
但是这位未来的杰克船长在1990年又向合演《剪刀手爱德华》的薇诺娜•瑞德求婚了。
He got 'Winona Forever' tattooed on his right shoulder in a grand romantic gesture. But following their split had it changed to 'Wino Forever', which he has since claimed was more accurate.
他还做了一件非常浪漫的事，把“永远的薇诺娜”纹在他的右臂上。但是在他们分手后这一纹身就改成了“永远的酒鬼”，德普本人声称后面的说法更为准确。
He dated supermodel Kate Moss for four years before moving onto another famous catwalker.
德普和超模凯特•摩丝交往了四年，然后又和另外一位名模谈起了恋爱。
In 1998 he began dating his most long-term partner Vanessa Paradis, who he met on set of The Ninth Gate.
1998年，他开始和凡妮莎•帕拉迪丝约会，他们是在开始拍摄电影《第九道门》时认识的。凡妮莎成为了和他在一起时间最久的女人。
Johnny split from Vanessa in 2012 after 14 years together.
在相伴了14年之后，2012年德普和凡妮莎分手。
They have two children together: Lily-Rose, 16, and Jack, 13.
Then in 2012 Johnny met and began dating Amber Heard on set of The Rum Diary.
2012年在开始拍摄电影《莱姆酒日记》时，德普开始和艾梅柏•希尔德约会。
Johnny and Amber exchanged vows under a flower-adorned marquee on the beach of Depp's private island in the Bahamas in February last year.
去年二月份，在德普位于巴哈马的私人小岛海滩上，德普和艾梅伯在鲜花顶棚下交换了结婚誓言。
Just 24 guests were in attendance.
只有24个客人参加了婚礼。
However, it is understood they got married legally in Los Angeles first so his ailing mother was attend.
不过，据了解，为了让德普生病的母亲能够参加，两人此前已经在洛杉矶公证结婚。
The actress, 30, filed divorce papers on Monday citing irreconcilable differences and seeking spousal support.
现年30岁的女演员艾梅伯于周一（5月23日）提交离婚申请，理由是不可调和的分歧，并索要配偶赡养费。
On Wednesday, Johnny, 52, who is worth $400 million and owns a private island in The Bahamas, filed his own legal documents asking the judge to reject his estranged wife's request for maintenance.
周三，德普也提交了法律文书，要求法官驳回分居的妻子索要赡养费的要求。现年52岁的德普家产达4亿美元，在巴哈马拥有一座私人小岛，
A source says the couple do not have a pre-nup, according to TMZ.
据美国名人消息网称，一名知情人士透露，这对夫妇没有签订婚前协议。
The website also revealed that the actor's beloved mother Betty Sue Palmer passed away on May 20. Amber lodged her divorce petition two days later.
该网站还爆料说，德普深爱的母亲贝蒂•苏•帕尔默5月20日去世。两天后艾梅伯就提交了离婚申请。
Amber previously admitted she likes to date both men and women.
此前，艾梅伯曾坦言自己是双性恋。
The actress enjoyed a relationship with female photographer Tasya van Ree.
她曾经和女摄影师塔斯雅•凡•瑞交往过。
