 Young workers are earning less because they don't switch jobs enough, experts are warning.
 专家称，近来年轻职工的收入越来越低，原因就是他们换工作不够频繁。
 Despite record growth in employment, the number of times employees move roles has fallen over the past decade, the Resolution Foundation think tank says.
 决议基金会智囊团认为，在过去的十年中，虽然就业率创纪录地增长，但是从业人员更换工作的次数却减少了。
 Hourly pay for 22 to 29-year-olds only recovered last year to its 2000 level, according to its report.
 根据报告显示，去年22岁至29岁从业人员的时薪只恢复到2000年的水平。
 Young workers' pay would be 3% higher if job mobility had not slowed, it adds.
 报告中还说，要是就业流动性没有下降的话，年轻从业人员的薪资就能提高3%。
 The Foundation's senior policy analyst Laura Gardiner said: “Frequent job moves are the main route to the rapid pay increases young people should experience as they begin their working lives, so it is a real concern that job switching slowed down for all groups, and particularly for young people, even before the recession hit.
 该基金会的高级政策分析师劳拉·加德纳认为，“年轻人迅速加薪的主要途径就是频繁更换工作，这是他们初入职场的必经之路。因此即使是在经济衰退之前，对所有群体来说，工作更换的速度放缓下来颇让人担忧，尤其是年轻人。
 “Unpicking the reasons why young people are staying put in their jobs for longer is crucial to understanding whether job switching can return to its previous level, or whether we are seeing a ‘new normal' of fewer job moves and subsequent slower pay growth for generations to come.”
 “仔细分析年轻人在同个岗位待得时间更长，这对理解以下两点十分重要：一是更换工作的频率能否回到先前水平；二是随着更换工作次数减少，下一代人薪资增长速度越来越慢，这种情况是否会变成‘新常态'。”
 Less frequent job moves among young people deepened their pay squeeze by a third during the downturn, the report says.
 该报告指出，在经济大萧条期间，由于更换工作次数的减少，年轻人的薪资比原来少了三分之一。
 It could permanently slash their earnings potential in the labour market, experts fear.
 针对以上情况，专家担心这样会长久地削弱劳动力市场中年轻群体的收入潜力。
 Job mobility – the frequency at which people move from one job to another – is a strong predictor of faster earnings growth.
 工作流动性，即人们更换工作的频率，可以很好地预测人们收入增长的速度。
 And the “switching premium” – the pay boost from changing jobs compared to staying put – is particularly strong for young people.
 而“转换溢价”，即换工作比待在原岗位增加收入，这点在年轻群体中表现尤为突出。
 Between 2007 and 2014, pay growth among 18-29-year-olds who switched jobs was 2.7 times higher than those who stayed in their existing positions.
 2007年到2014年间，在18-29岁年龄层的群体中，跳槽的人薪资增长水平比留在原有岗位工作的人高了2.7倍。
 Ms Gardiner urged young workers - dubbed the “Millennial generation” - to move to earn more.
 加德纳女士敦促被称为“新千年一代”的年轻职员，要多换工作来赚更多的钱。
 She added: “Unless we want to see a long term scarring effect on the wages of future generations, Millennials must regain confidence and increase the frequency with which they move jobs, and firms must be more willing to take them on.”
 她补充道：“我们都不愿看到下一代人在薪酬方面长期受到负面影响，所以年轻一代需要重拾信心，多换换工作，而且公司需要更乐于接纳这些年轻人。”
