After a tumultuous week in markets, investors await minutes of the Federal Reserve’s last monetary policy meeting and economic data from the US and Japan. Investors will also have their eyes on Chinese markets, which reopen on Monday after being closed for a week in observance of the Lunar New Year holiday.
经历了上周的市场动荡后，投资者正在等待美联储(Federal Reserve)最近一次货币政策会议的纪要，以及美国和日本的经济数据。投资者还将关注春节黄金周过后周一重新开盘的中国市场。
Having missed a rocky week in global markets, investors await the release of China’s latest trade figures. Economists expect exports to decline 1.8 per cent in January from the previous year, while imports are estimated to fall 3.6 per cent. The trade surplus is expected to narrow modestly to $60.6bn.
在中国“躲过”全球市场上周的震荡后，投资者正等待中国发布最新贸易数据。经济学家们预计，1月份出口将出现1.8%的同比下降，而进口估计将同比下降3.6%。预计贸易顺差将小幅收窄至606亿美元。
With investors concerned about the trajectory of the US economy the minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s January meeting come into focus on Wednesday.
在投资者担忧美国经济轨迹的背景下，联邦公开市场委员会(FOMC) 1月会议纪要将在周三成为焦点。
The monetary policy setting panel voted to keep interest rates unchanged last month as it said it was monitoring the volatility in financial markets and developments in overseas economies. The minutes will offer more details on that thought process.
这个货币政策制定委员会在上月的会上投票决定维持利率不变，它曾在会后表示，正在监测金融市场波动性和海外经济体的动态。会议纪要将提供有关这一思维过程的更多细节。
Economists at Bank of America expect the minutes to “reveal more concern among Fed officials about the global backdrop and the tightening of financial conditions, but stop well short of suggesting the Fed will postpone rate hikes in March or later”.
美国银行(Bank of America)经济学家预计，会议纪要将“揭示美联储官员对于全球背景和金融状况收紧的更多关切，但远远不到暗示美联储将推迟在3月或之后加息的地步”。
Economists expect falling energy and food prices to have weighed on inflation last month. Consumer price inflation is expected to decline 0.1 per cent in January from the previous month, when it slid 0.1 per cent. Meanwhile core consumer prices, which strip out more volatile items like food and energy are expected to rise 0.2 per cent from December and rise 2.1 per cent from the year ago period.
经济学家们预计，不断下降的能源和食品价格应该抑制了美国上月的通胀。预计1月的消费价格指数(CPI)将比之前一个月下跌0.1%（之前一个月的环比跌幅也是0.1%）。与此同时，剔除食品和能源等波动比较大的项目之后的核心CPI预计将环比上涨0.2%，同比上涨2.1%。
The Fed is closely watching for signs of price pressure as it determines whether to raise rates at its meeting in March.
正在斟酌是否要在3月会议上加息的美联储，正密切关注物价承压的迹象。
Policymakers from 28 members of the European Union gather in Brussels for a two-day summit on Thursday. The refugee crisis and Britain’s EU membership are expected to be on the agenda.
来自欧盟28个成员国的政策制定者周四将汇聚布鲁塞尔，举行为期两天的峰会。难民危机和英国的欧盟成员国身份问题预计将在议事日程上。
With the Bank of Japan unexpectedly adopting negative interest rates last month in an effort to stave off deflationary pressures investors now await the country’s latest growth figures. Economists expect GDP declined 0.2 per cent sequentially in the fourth quarter.
日本央行(Bank of Japan)为了抗衡通缩压力而在上月意外实行负利率之后，投资者正等待着该国的最新增长数据。经济学家们预计，去年第四季度日本国内生产总值(GDP)环比下降0.2%。
