Vice President Joe Biden says he "would have been the best president" if he had mounted a successful campaign in the 2016 election, but that forgoing the race was the right decision for his family.
美国副总统拜登说，如果他在2016年大选中组织一次成功的竞选活动，那么他“就会成为最好的总统”。但放弃竞选是为家庭做出的正确选择。
Speaking with "Good Morning America" co-anchor Robin Roberts in an exclusive interview that aired Wednesday, Biden said he had planned to run but changed course only after his eldest son Beau died last May.
在星期三播出的《早安美国》中，主持人罗宾圠伯茨对拜登进行了独家采访，拜登说他本来要参加竞选，但去年五月他的长子博逝世，就改变了计划。
"No one should ever seek the presidency unless they're able to devote their whole heart and soul and passion into just doing that," he said. "And, Beau was my soul. I just wasn't ready to be able to do that. But, so, my one regret is my Beau's not here. I don't have any other regrets."
“除非能全身心地投入，并热爱这项事业，否则谁也不应该谋求总统职位，”他说，“而且，博就是我的灵魂。我只是没有准备好去做。所以，我的博不在了，我感到很遗憾。但也只有这个遗憾。”
For months last year the question of whether Biden would run loomed over the Democratic presidential contest. Then in October he announced that he and his family were still dealing with the grief over Beau's death and he would not seek the presidency.
去年一连好几个月，拜登是否会参加竞选的疑问都笼罩着民主党的总统候选人竞争。之后，10月份他宣布不再参加总统竞选，因为他和家人还没有从博去世的悲痛中走出来。
Beau Biden died in May 2015 at the age of 46 after a battling brain cancer for years.
博拜登与脑癌抗争多年，于2015年五月去世，享年46岁。
The vice president's comments came during an interview with Roberts about his "Cancer Moon Shot" initiative, which aims to accelerate the effort to improve treatments for cancer and to possibly find a cure.
在罗伯茨的访谈中，拜登副总统谈到了他的“抗癌登月”计划，此项计划的目的是推动癌症治疗取得更大更快的进展，尽可能找到治愈方法。
"It's kind of bittersweet," Biden told Roberts of his role leading the administration's fight against the disease that took his son. "But this is -- this allows me to pour all my energies into -- doing somethin' that -- hopefully will -- five years from now if -- someone's diagnosed with what my Beau was diagnosed with, they -- they live."
癌症带走了他的儿子，他又是美国政府抗击癌症计划的带头人，谈及这个角色，拜登对罗伯茨说“这是种甜蜜的苦涩。但这是……我得以倾注所有的精力，来做点事，希望可以，五年以后，如果有人诊断出和我的博一样的病，那么他们，他们可以活下来。”
His decision last year not to run was viewed as a boost to Hillary Clinton's run for the Democratic Party's nomination.
人们认为，去年他放弃参加竞选的决定有利于希拉里克林顿争取民主党党内提名。
Biden has not endorsed either Clinton or Sen. Bernie Sanders, her opponent in the primary, but he said he thinks Clinton will be the nominee.
拜登既没有支持克林顿，也没有支持她最大的对手参议员伯尼儠德斯，但是他说，他觉得克林顿会成为候选人。
"I feel confident that Hillary will be the nominee," Biden said, "and I feel confident she'll be the next president."
