Bayer, the German aspirin-to-weed-killer conglomerate, was putting the finishing touches on Sunday night to a $46bn-plus all cash offer for Monsanto, which it could unveil to the market as early as Monday morning Europe time, people familiar with the matter said.
拜耳(Bayer)公布了对美国农业集团孟山都(Monsanto)的收购要约。这一620亿美元的全现金收购方案，或成为德国企业史上最大的对外收购交易。拜耳是一家德国集团，生产从阿司匹林到除草剂在内的各种产品。
The purchase of the US agribusiness, which would be the biggest outbound German takeover since carmaker Daimler-Benz acquired Chrysler for $38.6bn in 1998, would create a global juggernaut in the business of providing everything from seeds to crop chemicals to farmers.
对这家美国农业集团的收购，将催生一家为农民提供从种子到农药在内的各种产品的全球巨头。它或将成为自汽车制造商戴姆勒-奔驰(Daimler-Benz)收购克莱斯勒(Chrysler)以来，德国规模最大的对外收购交易。戴姆勒-奔驰对克莱斯勒的收购发生在1998年，交易规模为386亿美元。
Any deal to acquire Monsanto is expected to value the St Louis-based company at a premium to its market value of nearly $46bn at the close of last week, according to people close to the process. They warned that the situation and timing remained fluid.
拜耳表示，该公司为收购孟山都开出了每股122美元的价格，这相对于5月9日未受并购消息影响的每股89.03美元的股价有37%的溢价。该公司表示，对孟山都的收购会成为“打造全球农业领导者的一次令人瞩目的机遇”。
Monsanto said last week it had received an unsolicited offer from Bayer but it did not disclose the terms of the proposal. Bayer, which confirmed the approach, also declined to give further details.
上周，孟山都曾表示已收到来自拜耳的主动报价，不过该集团并未披露该收购要约的具体条款。拜耳也已确认了这一并购流程，它也拒绝提供进一步细节。
The decision to make the terms public come after Bayer’s shareholders raised concerns, fearing it would need to raise substantial capital to fund the deal. Bayer, which has a market value of 74bn, has seen its share price drop by more than 10 per cent since news of its interest emerged.
决定将相关条款公开，是由于此前拜耳的股东担心需要筹集大量资金才能完成这一交易。拜耳的市值为740亿欧元，自有关该集团收购兴趣的消息出现以来，其股价已下跌逾10%。
Several banks have been lined up to help Bayer fund the deal, people familiar with the matter said.
知情人士表示，多家银行已联合起来，要帮助为拜耳提供完成该交易所需要的资金。
If successful, the deal would show that large multinationals are still chasing industry-transforming deals, despite the unravelling of many of the big transactions agreed in 2015.
该交易一旦成功，将证明大型跨国集团仍在追求会改变行业面貌的并购交易——尽管2015年通过的许多大型交易都被放弃了。
For its part Bayer — under freshly minted chief executive Werner Baumann — would become the world’s biggest agriculture supplier, and bring Monsanto’s’s focus on genetically modified seeds to its stable of crop sprays.
从拜耳的角度来说，该交易会令它在新任首席执行官维尔纳•鲍曼(Werner Baumann)领导下，成为全球最大的农业供应商，并将孟山都对转基因种子的关注聚焦到其农药产品线上。
