 Norway’s $860bn oil fund will no longer put money into 52 companies for being too reliant on coal in one of the biggest ever fossil fuel-related divestment by a single investor.
 管理8600亿美元资产的挪威石油基金将不再投资于52家过于依赖煤炭的公司，这是迄今单一投资者做出的与化石燃料相关的最大规模撤资举动之一。
 The world’s biggest sovereign wealth fund is no longer able to invest in a number of companies including Drax in the UK, AES, Dynegy and FirstEnergy in the US, Reliance Power and Tata Power in India, and a string of Chinese groups.
 这家全球最大主权财富基金不能再投资很多公司，包括英国的Drax、美国的AES、Dynegy和FirstEnergy、印度的信实电力(Reliance Power)和塔塔电力(Tata Power)以及很多中国公司。
 The move comes four months after a landmark global agreement on climate change in Paris and highlights how seriously investors are now taking the debate on fossil fuels and potential stranded assets. The Norwegian fund’s decision is all the more striking because it derives its funding from petroleum revenues.
 4个月前，各国在巴黎达成一项里程碑式的全球气候变化协议，这一撤资举动突显出投资者正认真对待围绕化石燃料和潜在搁浅资产的辩论。挪威石油基金的撤资决定之所以格外引人注目，是因为其资金来自石油收入。
 Norway’s parliament last year ordered the oil fund to sell out of companies in which more than 30 per cent of revenues or activities are derived from coal. The oil fund said it had sold out of 28 of the 52 companies last year as part of risk-based divestments.
 去年，挪威议会命令该基金抛出逾30%营收或业务来自煤炭的公司。这家石油基金表示，作为基于风险的撤资计划的一部分，去年它已出售上述52家公司中的28家公司的全部股份。
 The oil fund on Thursday warned that “several more” rounds of exclusions would follow this year as it analysed all of its nearly 10,000 holdings.
 该石油基金周四警告称，今年将再拟定“多份”不再投资的名单，目前正对其所持的近1万只股票全部进行分析。
 Among the exclusions on Thursday was Peabody Energy, the coal miner that this week filed for bankruptcy protection. Other exclusions include: China Coal Energy, China Power International Development, China Resources Power Holdings, China Shenhua Energy, Datang International Power Generation, and Yanzhou Coal Mining.
 周四宣布的不再投资的对象包括本周申请破产保护的煤矿公司博地能源(Peabody Energy)。其他还包括：中煤能源(China Coal Energy)、中国电力国际发展(China Power International Development)、华润电力(China Resources Power Holdings)、中国神华能源(China Shenhua Energy)、大唐国际发电(Datang International Power Generation)以及兖州煤业(Yanzhou Coal Mining)。
