Pope Francis has waded into the US presidential race by saying Donald Trump is “not Christian” just two days before the New York mogul hopes to win the Republican primary in the heavily religious state of South Carolina.
教皇方济各(Pope Francis)介入了美国总统选战，称唐纳德礠朗普(Donald Trump)“不是基督徒”。而特朗普这位纽约富豪正期待两天后能在宗教氛围浓厚的南卡罗来纳州赢得共和党初选。
Speaking on his plane after departing Mexico, Pope Francis took aim at Mr Trump’s proposal to build a wall along the US border with its southern neighbour.
教皇方济各是在乘飞机离开墨西哥的途中发表的这番讲话，他把矛头对准了特朗普在美墨边境修筑一道墙的提议。
"A person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not Christian," the pontiff said. "This is not in the Gospel."
“只考虑筑墙——无论是在哪筑墙——而不考虑搭桥的人，不是基督徒。”教皇表示，“这种行为不在福音书中。”
Mr Trump, whose presidential campaign has been propelled by his promise to deport the 11m — mostly Mexican — illegal immigrants in the US hit back immediately, saying it was “disgraceful” for Pope Francis to question his faith and suggesting that the pontiff should pray for his election victory to prevent a terror attack on the Vatican.
特朗普立刻对此展开回击，称教皇方济各质疑他的信仰是“有失体面的”，并暗示后者为了防止梵蒂冈受到恐怖袭击应祈祷他能够胜选。特朗普曾许诺要将1100万在美非法移民（主要是墨西哥人）驱逐出境，此举对他的选战势头起到了促进作用。
“If and when the Vatican is attacked by Isis, which as everyone knows is Isis’s ultimate trophy, I can promise you that the Pope would have only wished and prayed that Donald Trump would have been president because this would not have happened,” Mr Trump said in a rare emailed statement. “Isis would have been eradicated unlike what is happening now with our all talk, no action politicians.”
在一份罕见的以电子邮件形式发出的声明中，特朗普表示：“有朝一日梵蒂冈受到ISIS（伊拉克和黎凡特伊斯兰国）袭击时——大家都知道那是ISIS的终极目标——我可以向你保证教皇只会希望并祈祷要是唐纳德礠朗普是总统就好了，因为只有那样这一切才不会发生。ISIS会被根除，而不会因我们那些只会空谈、没有行动的政客而出现像眼下这样的局面。”
Mr Trump, who has promised to make Mexico pay for the wall, recently accused Pope Francis of being a political man and “pawn” of the Mexican government. Asked to respond, the pontiff said he was glad the mogul called him a politician: “Aristotle defined the human person as ‘animal politicus’, so at least I am a human person.”
特朗普已许诺要让墨西哥掏钱来修筑这道墙。他最近还谴责教皇方济各是一名政客，是墨西哥政府的“小卒子”。在记者请求就这一评价作出回应时，教皇方济各表示，他乐见这位富豪称他为政客：“亚里士多德对人类的定义是‘政治动物’，因此至少我是个人。”
Asked whether he believed Catholics in the US should vote for Mr Trump, the pontiff replied: “I am not going to get involved in that. I say only that this man is not Christian if he has said things like that (about building a wall). We must see if he said things in that way and in this I give the benefit of the doubt.”
在被问及他是否认为美国天主教徒应把票投给特朗普时，教皇方济各回应道：“我不打算介入此事。我只会说，如果他说过那样的话（指有关筑墙的事），那么这个人就不是基督徒。我们必须弄清楚他是否是那么说的，在这件事情上，我暂且先作无罪推定吧。”
His comments come at a sensitive time in the presidential race. After winning New Hampshire but losing in Iowa, Mr Trump is hoping for a big victory in South Carolina to solidify his position as the Republican frontrunner. But he faces challenges from Ted Cruz, and Marco Rubio.
教皇发表这些言论之际，美国总统选战正处于敏感时刻。在新罕布什尔州初选获胜但在艾奥瓦州失利后，特朗普正寄望于在南卡罗来纳州大获全胜，以巩固其在共和党初选选战中的领跑位置。不过，他面临着来自特德克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)和马尔科脠比奥(Marco Rubio)的挑战。
Underscoring the stakes for Mr Trump, one of his aides suggested on Twitter that Pope Francis was a hypocrite. “Amazing comments from the Pope- considering Vatican City is 100% surrounded by massive walls,” the aide tweeted.
凸显出这场口水战对特朗普有多重要的一个迹象是，他的一名助手在Twitter上暗示教皇方济各是个伪君子。这名助手在Twitter上发贴称：“考虑到梵蒂冈城是百分之百地被高墙围住，教皇的这些言论真是令人惊讶。”
Mr Trump on Thursday said Pope Francis had “only heard one side of the story” during his visit to Mexico and did not see “the crime, the drug trafficking and the negative economic impact the current policies have on the United States”.
周四特朗普表示，教皇方济各在访问墨西哥时“只听到了故事的一面”，而没有看到“现行政策给美国带来的犯罪、毒品交易和消极经济影响”。
