A New Zealand court has ruled that Kim Dotcom, the internet entrepreneur accused of masterminding one of the largest copyright infringements in history, can be extradited to the US.
新西兰一法庭裁定，互联网创业家金德康(Kim Dotcom)可被引渡到美国。他被控策划了史上规模最大的版权侵权之一。
The judgment is a victory for the US Department of Justice, which has fought a near four-year legal battle to have the 41-year-old German stand trial on copyright infringement and money-laundering charges related to his file-sharing site Megaupload.
这一裁定是美国司法部(US Department of Justice)的一场胜利。为了让这名41岁的德国人接受审判（他被控侵犯版权和洗钱，这些指控与他的文件分享网站Megaupload有关），美国司法部进行了将近4年的法律斗争。
“I’m disappointed,” Mr Dotcom said as he left court.
金德康在离开法庭时表示：“我感到失望。”
The flamboyant entrepreneur, who has had up to $50m in assets frozen by authorities, including a Rolls-Royce Phantom Drophead Coupé and a 1959 Pink Cadillac, promised to appeal against the ruling while wishing onlookers outside the court a merry Christmas.
这名个性张扬的创业家承诺将针对此裁决上诉，同时祝法庭外的旁观者圣诞快乐。他被当局冻结的财产总价值高达5000万美元，包括一辆劳斯莱斯幻影敞篷车(Rolls-Royce Phantom Drophead Coupé)和一辆1959年款粉色凯迪拉克(Pink Cadillac)。
In 2012, the Federal Bureau of Investigation shut the Megaupload site, which it described as an online piracy operation that generated $175m in illegal profits and cost film studios and music companies more than $500m.
2012年，美国联邦调查局(FBI)关闭了Megaupload网站，称该网站从事盗版活动并从中获得了1.75亿美元非法利润，还给制片公司和音乐公司造成了逾5亿美元损失。
The US authorities claim that downloads of pirated movies and music through Megaupload at its peak were responsible for 4 per cent of global internet traffic — although the site’s defenders insist that not all of that material was illegal.
美国当局声称，在Megaupload的巅峰时期，通过该网站下载盗版电影和音乐的流量占到全球互联网流量的4%。不过该网站的辩护者坚称，并非所有文件都是非法的。
Judge Nevin Dawson ruled that Mr Dotcom and three of his associates — Mathias Ortmann, Bram van der Kolk and Finn Batato — can be extradited to the US to face trial on racketeering, money laundering, copyright infringement and other charges.
法官内文匠森(Nevin Dawson)裁定，金德康和他的3名同事马赛厄斯攠祙曼(Mathias Ortmann)、布拉姆范德科尔克(Bram van der Kolk)和芬恩巴塔托(Finn Batato)可被引渡到美国，就诈骗、洗钱、侵犯版权和其他指控接受审判。
He told a packed courtroom that the US had a “large body of evidence” that supported a prima facie case against the four men. “The respondents fall well short of undermining the case.”
法官在坐得满满当当的法庭上表示，美国有“大量证据”支持针对上述4人初步立案。“被告远远不足以推翻立案。”
Intellectual property experts said the case was important as it demonstrated US determination to pursue those who facilitate piracy by encouraging the use of online services. Henry Fraser, a lawyer specialising in technology and IP law at Rouse Lawyers in Sydney, said: “What the copyright industries really care about is online services that help, or even just knowingly allow, their customers to infringe copyright.”
知识产权专家表示，此案很重要，因为它表明美国决心追究那些通过鼓励人们使用在线服务为盗版提供便利的人。悉尼Rouse Lawyers律师事务所专门打科技和知识产权官司的律师亨利弗雷泽(Henry Fraser)表示：“版权行业真正在乎的，是那些为用户侵犯版权提供便利、甚至故意让他们这么做的在线服务。”
Mr Dotcom faces up to 20 years in jail if he is found guilty in the US. His lawyers argued that Megaupload was an internet service provider similar to others and that the site’s administrators had made efforts to move content that infringed copyright.
如果在美国被判有罪，金德康将面临最长20年监禁。他的律师辩称，Megaupload是一家普通的互联网服务供应商，该网站的管理者曾努力移除侵犯版权的内容。
