A study found that workers in Japan distrust their employers significantly more than workers in the US, UK, Canada and Australia do.
一项调查显示，日本的员工比美国、英国、加拿大、澳大利亚等国的员工更不信任自己的雇主。
In the past, Japanese work culture revolved around one core belief: "lifetime employment". Workers would join a company after graduation from university and remain with that company until their retirement. Often, a strong bond would form between the worker and his (rarely her) company, with customs such as company-wide trips, and "bring your family" events. Accordingly, workers in Japan used to have an awful lot of job security, and job-hopping simply wasn't a thing.
过去，日本的企业文化都围绕“终生雇佣制”这一核心理念，也就是说，大学毕业后加入某个企业的员工可以为其效力直至退休。通常情况下，员工（多为男性）与雇佣企业之间会建立起强有力的感情纽带，企业会组织员工集体出游和一些可携家带口的活动。由此可见，过去的日本员工有很多的工作保障，跳槽这种事发生的可能性几乎为零。
Now, however, the only people who are generally granted job security for life are civil servants, who work at city hall for their entire career and get shuffled around every couple of years in a process called jinji-idou (personnel transfers) which is designed to keep things fresh. Those who work for regular companies, however, have much less obligation to stick with their employer than they used to, and, in turn, that has led to companies showing significantly less care for their employees. One has only to consider the high incidence of contract workers and part-time workers, and the emergence of so-called "black companies" which flout labour laws and in some cases treat their employees so badly, it can even drive them to suicide.
但就现在来看，也只有公务员才能享受到有工作保障的生活。他们的整个职业生涯都在为市政府工作，大约每几年调动一次。这种所谓的“人事变动”的目的是保持新鲜感。而那些为一般企业工作的员工就不再像以前那样甘为雇主奋斗终生，这也反过来导致公司对员工的关怀度大不如从前。你只需看看这么多的合同工和兼职工，再看看那些公然违反劳动法、把员工压榨得想自杀的“黑心公司”就知道了。
A new survey conducted by Edelman PR polled Japanese workers to discover just how loyal they feel towards their employers in this economic climate. The results are unsurprising—only 40 percent of those polled agreed with the statement: "I trust the company I work for".
爱德曼公关公司对日本员工进行了一次新民意调查，意在了解当前经济形势下员工对雇主的忠诚度。调查结果在意料之中——只有40%的员工选择“我信任目前所属的公司”。
The results come as part of a larger poll in which the same question was posed to workers in 28 other countries; of that number, Japan ranked bottom in employer company trust. Mexico ranked highest with 89 percent agreeing to the statement. Other results included: United States (64 percent), United Kingdom (57 percent), Australia (54 percent), Canada (64 percent), Germany (62 percent), and France (48 percent).
爱德曼公司也就同样的问题调查了其他28个国家的员工。经比较发现，日本员工对公司的信任度最低，而墨西哥人有89%选择了“信任公司”，排在最前。其他结果还有：美国（64%），英国（57%），澳大利亚（54%），加拿大（64%），德国（62%），法国（48%）。
Another statement, "I foresee improvement in the next five years for myself and my ability to provide for my family", was met with only a 19 percent agreement rate amongst white-collar workers, dropping to 15 percent amongst blue-collar workers. The global average was 55 and 47 percent respectively for white- and blue-collar workers, indicating that Japanese workers are generally highly pessimistic about their futures in their current companies.
关于调查中“我可以预见到，未来五年我的生活会改善，并能更好地养家”这一项，日本的白领员工只有19%表示认同，而蓝领员工则只有15%。从全球平均值来看，白领和蓝领员工的认同率分别为55%和47%。由此可以看出，日本员工大多对自己目前供职的公司的前景十分悲观。
