 Aung San Suu Kyi has picked a long-time confidant to become Myanmar’s history-making new president, after failing to overturn a controversial constitutional clause that blocks her from the top job.
 昂山素季(Aung San Suu Kyi)已选择一位长期以来的密友担任具有开创历史意义的缅甸新总统。此前，她未能废除宪法中一项妨碍她担任总统职位的争议性条款。
 Htin Kyaw, a friend of 20 years who runs a charity for the veteran pro-democracy leader, was chosen for what she has said will be a proxy job to carry out her decisions.
 昂山素季选择吴廷觉(Htin Kyaw)担任总统候选人，她说，这将是一个执行她本人决定的代理性工作。吴廷觉与昂山素季的友谊长达20年，如今替这位民主领袖运营一家慈善机构。
 Thursday’s nomination by the lower house of parliament dominated by Ms Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy will need to be approved by a vote of the full legislature, notching another landmark in the country’s long transition from military rule. The NLD has comfortable majorities in both houses of parliament, so it would be a big surprise were her choice to be rejected.
 周四由昂山素季领导的全国民主联盟(NLD)占主导地位的议会下院做出的提名，将需要议会全体成员投票通过，成为缅甸历时已久的从军事统治向民主政体过渡的又一里程碑。全国民主联盟在议会上下两院都拥有绝对多数席位，所以，若没有重大意外，她的选择将不会被拒绝。
 Mr Htin Kyaw, a 70-year-old author and Oxford university graduate, has been an adviser to Ms Aung San Suu Kyi since the 1990s and the start of her 15 years of house arrest. The new president will from April 1 lead a government to replace the military-backed administration, which has held power since the ruling junta of almost 50 years stepped down in 2011.
 今年70岁的吴廷觉是一名作家，毕业于牛津大学。自1990年代昂山素季开始15年的幽禁生活以来，吴廷觉一直在担任她的顾问。新总统将于4月1日组阁，取代目前得到军方支持的政府。自2011年掌权近50年的军政府下台以来，缅甸一直由现政府执掌。
 Mr Htin Kyaw’s nomination is final confirmation that Ms Aung San Suu Kyi will be denied the honour of leading the first administration since the 1960s to be chosen after a full, free and fair election. The NLD made a late effort to use its sweeping mandate from November’s poll to bargain with the still-powerful military for a change in the constitution, but talks broke down.
 吴廷觉获提名最终确认了一个事实，即昂山素季无法享有领导自1960年代以来的第一个通过全面、自由和公平的选举而产生的政府的荣誉。全国民主联盟进行了一次姗姗来迟的努力，利用去年11月议会选举获得的大多数席位，与实力仍然雄厚的军方进行谈判、要求修改宪法，但谈判最终破裂了。
