Russian President Vladimir Putin says he wants to develop better ties with the United States no matter who wins next year's U.S. presidential election.
俄罗斯总统普京说，无论谁在明年的美国总统大选中胜出，他都希望改善与美国的关系。
In his annual news conference with international reporters, Putin said he is ready to work with any president the American people elect.
普京在国际记者年度新闻发布会上表示，他准备和任何一位当选的美国总统合作。
He said his talks with U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry earlier this week indicated that the U.S. is ready to move toward "settling issues that can only be settled through joint efforts."
他说，本周早些时候他和美国国务卿克里的会谈显示，美国准备朝“解决只有通过共同努力方能解决的问题”的方向发展。
Regarding Syria, Putin said the Russian military operation will continue until a political process starts. And he said the Syrian people must determine who rules the country. He also said he does not know whether Russia needs a permanent military base in Syria.
在叙利亚问题上，普京说，俄罗斯将继续开展军事行动，直至政治进程启动。他说，必须让叙利亚人民自己决定由谁来治理这个国家。他还说，他不知道俄罗斯是否需要在叙利亚设立永久军事基地。
On Turkey, which recently shot down a Russian warplane, Putin said he sees no possibility of overcoming the strained ties with the current Turkish leadership. He said he was shocked to see that Turkey hadn't tried to explain its action but turned to help from NATO instead.
在土耳其问题上，普京表示，他看不到与现任土耳其领导人消除紧张关系的可能性。土耳其不久前击落了一架俄罗斯战机。他说，他非常震惊地看到，土耳其非但没有对其行为做出解释，反而转向北约寻求帮助。
And regarding Ukraine, the Russian president again denied that there are Russian troops operating inside eastern Ukraine where a pro-Russian separatist movement is fighting Ukrainian government troops. But he said Moscow never denied that "certain people" were there carrying out tasks "in the military sphere." He said Russia plans no sanctions against Ukraine, but will not extend preferential trade to Kyiv.
谈到乌克兰，普京再次否认俄罗斯军队在东乌克兰境内活动。那里的亲俄罗斯分离主义运动正在与乌克兰政府军作战。但是他说，莫斯科从未否认有人在那里开展属于“军事领域”的行动。他还说，俄罗斯没有制裁乌克兰的计划，但不会让乌克兰享受优惠贸易待遇。
Putin had positive things to say about the Russian economy, saying it has "passed the crisis -- at least, the peak of the crisis."
普京对俄罗斯经济做出积极评价。他说，经济已渡过危机，至少渡过了危机的高峰。
