A team of European neurologists says in a new study that Russian president Vladimir Putin walks with a peculiar "gunslinger's gait".
欧洲一神经学家团队在一项新研究中称俄罗斯总统普京走路时带有一种奇特的“枪手步态”。
The study, published on Tuesday by the British Medical Journal, notes that Putin has shown a "clearly reduced right-sided arm swing", possibly related to weapons training he received when he was part of the Soviet KGB.
周二，这份发表在《英国医学杂志》周刊的报告称“显然，普京的右臂摆动少”，这可能与普京在前苏联克格勃接受过武器训练有关。
Citing a KGB training manual they obtained, the researchers suggest that his style of walking is linked to training he underwent in the feared security agency, where he rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel before retiring at the twilight of the Soviet Union.
普京在前苏联时期为克格勃工作，退休前曾晋升中校军衔。通过研究克格勃使用的训练手册，研究人员认为普京的走路方式与他在情报安全机构接受的培训有关。
"According to this manual, KGB operatives were instructed to keep their weapon in their right hand close to their chest and to move forward with one side, usually the left, presumably allowing subjects to draw the gun as quickly as possible when confronted with a foe," the researchers, based in Portugal, Italy, and the Netherlands, wrote.
来自葡萄牙、意大利和荷兰的研究者们共同写道，“这本训练手册指示克格勃特工将武器放在右手靠近胸部，在走路时将身体的一侧，通常是左侧，略微转向前进方向，以便遇到敌人时能尽快拔出枪”。
To test their hypothesis, the neurologists studied YouTube videos of other Russian officials.
为了验证他们的设想，神经学家们还研究了YouTube上其他俄罗斯官员走路的视频。
Bastiaan Bloem, a professor of movement disorder neurology at Radboud University Medical Centre in Nijmegen, the Netherlands, who led the study, said his team was "stunned" by what they saw.
领导这项研究工作的荷兰奈梅亨大学医学中心运动障碍神经学教授巴斯蒂安·布卢姆说，他们被所看到的一切“惊呆”了。
They found the same characteristic walk in Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, in former Russian defense minister Anatoly Serdyukov and Sergei Ivanov, and in senior Russian military commander Anatoly Sidorov.
他们在俄罗斯总理梅德韦杰夫、两位前国防部长阿纳托利·谢尔久科夫和谢尔盖·伊万诺夫、高级军事指挥官阿纳托利·西多罗夫身上也发现了这种独特的走路方式。
Like Putin, Ivanov is a former KGB officer who served in Europe during the Cold War. Serdyukov and Sidorov both received military training, the researchers claim.
研究人员称，普京和伊万诺夫都是冷战时期在欧洲服役的前克格勃官员。谢尔久科夫和西多罗夫则受过军事训练。
The outlier in this group is Medvedev, a lawyer by training who has no clear ties to the KGB and did not serve in the military, though he is thought to have undergone brief reservist training during his university years.
而梅德韦杰夫是律师出身，尽管在大学期间曾有过短暂的后备军训练，但他似乎与军队和克格勃都没有明显的联系。
Since Putin handpicked him to serve as president from 2008-12 – between Putin's second and fourth terms – Medvedev's body language has often resembled that of his mentor, as has the cadence of his speech.
梅德韦杰夫由普京亲自挑选任职2008年至2012年的俄罗斯第三任总统，而普金任职第二任和第四任俄罗斯总统——梅德韦杰夫的肢体语言与他的导师普京很相似，演讲也是抑扬顿挫。
Citing western media reports, the researchers write that "substantial evidence suggests that Medvedev is being coached to sound, look, and importantly, walk like the president."
援引了西方媒体报道，调查人员写道“大量证据表明，梅德韦杰夫无论在声音、面貌，尤其是走路姿势上，都在模仿普京总统。”
The study asserts that Putin's asymmetrical arm swing is likely "a behavioural adaptation resulting from military or intelligence training."
该研究称普京摆臂不对称可能“因军事或情报训练造成的”。
Bloem conceded that his researchers do not have access to Putin's medical records or his doctors. But he said Putin's unusual walk is the subject of a small but growing debate among medical specialists.
布卢姆承认他的研究人员无法探访到普京的医疗记录或医生。但他说普京不同寻常的走路姿势引起了越来越多医学专家的争论。
"It is an unusual study, but there is a very serious message to it" about neurological observation, he told AFP in a telephone interview.
他在法新社的电话采访中说，“这是一个不寻常的研究，但对神经学观察有很重要的意义”。
Bloem added that Putin's "abnormal gait has been noted before."
布卢姆补充道普京“非比寻常的走路姿势以前就已经注意到了。”
"What we are putting forward, but very cautiously, is a new hypothesis," he said.
他说：“我们提出的是一个很谨慎的、新的假设。”
