Novak Djokovic, the world number one men’s tennis player, has detailed how he was once offered money to throw a match, as fresh allegations emerged that top players conspired to fix matches at Wimbledon and other leading tournaments.
世界排名第一的男子网球选手诺瓦克德约科维奇(Novak Djokovic)详细讲述了有人曾提出给他一笔钱、让他故意输掉比赛的事情。目前有新的指控称，一些顶级选手曾合谋在温布尔登及其他知名巡回赛上操纵比赛。
Speaking at a press conference in Melbourne, where the Australian Open began on Monday, Mr Djokovic said he “felt terrible” about the incident in 2007, when he was still a teenager.
德约科维奇在墨尔本的一个新闻发布会上表示，他对2007年的那件事“感到很不爽”。当时，德约科维奇还不到20岁。澳大利亚网球公开赛于周一在墨尔本开战。
“I was not approached directly. I was approached through people that were working with me at that time. Of course, we threw it away [rejected it] right away. It didn’t even get to me,” the 28-year old said.
现年28岁的德约科维奇表示：“那人不是直接与我接洽的，而是通过当时与我共事的人接洽我的。当然，我们立刻就顶回去了，甚至没到我这个环节。”
The match-fixing claims, based on leaked documents made available to the BBC, the UK broadcaster, and BuzzFeed, the news website, involve 16 of the world’s top 50 players over the past 10 years, eight of whom were in the draw for this year’s Australian Open. Their names have not been revealed.
这些操纵比赛的指控是基于英国广播公司(BBC)和新闻网站BuzzFeed获得的外泄文件作出的，牵涉到过去10年世界网坛最优秀的50名选手中的16名，其中8名出席了今年澳网公开赛的抽签仪式。他们的姓名没有被披露。
The claims centre on allegations that tennis authorities failed to act on a probe by their own anti-corruption body which found evidence of a network of players suspected of fixing matches. None of the players identified by the BBC and BuzzFeed have faced sanctions.
这些指控的焦点是，网球管理机构未能就其自身的反腐败机构展开的调查采取行动。这个反腐败机构发现了一群选手涉嫌合谋操纵比赛的证据。BBC和BuzzFeed甄别出的选手无一受到处罚。
BuzzFeed analysed 26,000 tennis matches, and identified suspiciously large bets, combined with unlikely results, that raised suspicions of match-fixing. Technology has played a key part, both in the use of betting exchanges and in the process of spotting alleged fixing.
BuzzFeed对2.6万场网球比赛进行了分析，甄别出了可疑的大型押注以及与常识相悖的比赛结果，这让人们不得不猜测有人操纵比赛。科技发挥了重要的作用，在博彩交易所的使用上以及在甄别涉嫌操纵比赛的行为的过程中都是如此。
Richard Ings, a former head of rules and competition at the Association of Tennis Professionals, told the BBC on Monday: “If you were going to invent a sport that was perfect for match fixing that would be tennis.”
职业网球联合会(ATP)前规则与竞争主管理查德英格斯(Richard Ings)周一告诉BBC：“如果你打算发明一种最适于操纵比赛的运动，那就是网球。”
However, the concerns were rejected by the current president of the ATP, which represents players’ interests. Chris Kermode told a press conference in Melbourne that it was not true that allegations of match-fixing were not taken seriously or properly investigated.
然而，ATP现任主席克里斯克莫德(Chris Kermode)拒绝接受这种观点。ATP代表网球选手的利益。克莫德在墨尔本的新闻发布会上表示，所谓操纵比赛的指控未得到严肃对待或妥善调查的说法是不成立的。
“The tennis authorities absolutely reject any suggestion that evidence of match-fixing has been suppressed for any reason or isn’t being thoroughly investigated,” he said.
He claimed the BBC and BuzzFeed reports “mainly refer to events from about 10 years ago” but added “we will investigate any new information and we always do”.
他声称，BBC和BuzzFeed的报道“主要提及的是大约10年前的比赛”。但他补充称，“我们会调查一切新信息，而且会一直这么做”。
Also speaking in Melbourne, Roger Federer, the former world number one, said of the allegations: “I would like to hear names...椠琀’s such nonsense to answer something that is pure speculation”. But he added: “You have to take it super serious.”
前世界头号男子网球选手罗杰费德勒(Roger Federer)在墨尔本也发表了讲话，他在谈到这些指控时表示：“我希望听听都有谁……回应纯粹的猜测毫无意义”。但他补充称：“必须非常严肃地对待这件事。
