North Korea, which often struggles to feed its own people, is making millions feeding foreigners.
在自己的人民常常忍饥挨饿的同时，朝鲜却在向外国人提供餐饮，赚到大笔金钱。
Entities linked to Kim Jong-un’s pariah state run an expanding empire of restaurants abroad, complete with singing and dancing waitresses in traditional dress. They cater to tourists and businesspeople, many of them South Koreans, and they pump badly needed hard-currency profits back to the communist North, which is largely cut off from the world economy by sanctions over its nuclear weapons program.
与金正恩的孤立政权有关联的实体在朝鲜之外运营着一个不断扩张的餐饮帝国，提供的服务包括身穿传统服装载歌载舞的女服务员。它们招待旅游者和商务人士，其中不少人来自韩国；这些餐厅向共产主义朝鲜源源不绝地输送它迫切需要的硬通货。朝鲜因发展核武器而受到制裁，其经济在很大程度上与世界经济隔绝。
(Because the restaurants handle a lot of cash, they are also suspected of being a convenient conduit for laundering money from some of the North’s sanctions-busting activities.)
（由于这些餐厅经手大量现金，因此被怀疑充当了方便的渠道，用来替朝鲜那些打破制裁的活动洗钱。）
There are about 130 of the restaurants, most of them in China, though also in Southeast and South Asia and a few farther afield, in Russia, Mongolia and even the Netherlands. Many are named Pyongyang after the North’s capital. Their menus often feature a specialty of the city, cold noodle, along with many variations on kimchi and, in some Asian locations at least, dog-meat soup.
朝鲜开设了大约130家这样的餐厅，大部分在中国，不过东南亚和南亚也有，还扩展到了俄罗斯以及蒙古，甚至连荷兰也有。不少餐厅都以朝鲜的首都平壤命名。菜单上往往有平壤特色冷面，以及许多种泡菜，至少一些开在亚洲的餐厅还供应狗肉汤。
The North Korean waitresses are said to be thoroughly screened for loyalty and carefully watched by security agents, but there have been reports that some have tried to defect. When that happens, evidently, the restaurant may be swiftly shut down and the rest of the staff shipped home.
据说，朝鲜女服务员都是经过细致筛选，确保忠诚的，也受到安全人员的严密监视。但是也有报道说，有些人试图叛逃。有迹象表明，叛逃事件一旦发生，这家饭馆可能就会立即停业，其他工作人员也被送回国。
The Pyongyang chain hit the headlines in February when the South Korean government, eager to step up pressure on the North after a provocative missile test, urged its citizens to stop patronizing the restaurants when they travel.
今年2月，这些平壤连锁店上了新闻——在朝鲜一次挑衅性的导弹试验之后，韩国政府迫切希望向朝鲜施压，敦促其国民在旅行时不要光顾这些餐厅。
