North Korea said Wednesday it conducted a "successful" hydrogen bomb test in a move that brought strong criticism from world powers.
朝鲜星期三宣布，“成功”进行了一次氢弹试验。朝鲜此举招致世界诸强国的强烈指责。
The announcement on state television called the test a matter of self-defense to protect the country's sovereignty and made several critical references of the United States. It came less than a month after North Korean leader Kim Jong Un claimed his country had developed a hydrogen bomb. The United States and others quickly discounted that claim.
朝鲜国家电视台说，进行氢弹试验属于自卫，是为了维护国家主权，并多次对美国提出批评。不到一个月前，朝鲜领导人金正恩声称，朝鲜研制了一枚氢弹，而美国和其他国家立即表示对此持怀疑态度。
A hydrogen bomb, also known as a thermonuclear bomb, is far more powerful than an atomic bomb.
氢弹又称热核弹，氢弹的威力远远超过原子弹。
North Korea conducted three previous nuclear tests in 2006, 2009 and 2013. All of them took place at the Punggye-ri site, the same area where several monitoring agencies detected man-made earthquake activity on Wednesday morning.
朝鲜于2006年、2009年和2013年先后进行了三次核试验。这三次核试验都是在丰溪里核试验场进行的。星期三上午，几个监督机构都在该地区监测到了人为地震活动。
U.S. National Security Council spokesman Ned Price said the White House could not confirm the test, but that the U.S. has consistently made clear it will not accept a nuclear North Korea.
美国国家安全委员会发言人普莱斯说，白宫不能对朝鲜的氢弹试验予以证实，但美国一贯明确表示，反对朝鲜拥有核武器。
The U.S., Britain and France all condemned any violations of United Nations Security Council resolutions. The council has sanctioned North Korea and urged the government to abandon its nuclear program multiple times, and is due to hold an emergency meeting on the latest developments later Wednesday.
美国、英国和法国都对任何违反联合国安理会决议的行为予以谴责。星期三晚些时候，安理会将召开一次紧急会议，讨论最新的事态发展。
China, a North Korean ally and permanent Security Council member, said it "firmly opposes" the test and called on North Korea to stop actions that "worsen the situation on the Korean peninsula."
中国作为朝鲜的盟友和安理会常任理事国，表示“坚决反对”朝鲜进行氢弹试验，并敦促平壤停止使朝鲜半岛局势恶化的行动。
The test prompted emergency national security meetings in South Korea and Japan.
朝鲜宣布进行氢弹试验后，韩国和日本都召集了紧急国家安全会议。
