Pyongyang, January 6 (KCNA) -- The DPRK government issued the following statement Wednesday:
朝中社平壤1月6日电-朝鲜政府6日发表声明。声明如下：
There took place a world startling event to be specially recorded in the national history spanning 5,000 years in the exciting period when all service personnel and people of the DPRK are making a giant stride, performing eye-catching miracles and exploits day by day after turning out as one in the all-out charge to bring earlier the final victory of the revolutionary cause of Juche, true to the militant appeal of the Workers' Party of Korea (WPK).
全国千万军民正以热血沸腾的心脏响应朝鲜劳动党的战斗号召，果敢开展争取主体革命事业最后胜利的总突击战，不断创造辉煌的奇迹和殊勋，取得巨大进展。在这激动人心的时期，发生五千年民族史上值得大书特书的大事，震撼着天地。
The first H-bomb test was successfully conducted in the DPRK at 10:00 on Wednesday, Juche 105 (2016), pursuant to the strategic determination of the WPK.
根据朝鲜劳动党的战略决策，主体105（2016）年1月6日10时，主体朝鲜第一颗氢弹试验成功举行。
Through the test conducted with indigenous wisdom, technology and efforts the DPRK fully proved that the technological specifications of the newly developed H-bomb for the purpose of test were accurate and scientifically verified the power of smaller H-bomb.
百分之百靠自己的智慧、技术和力量举行的此次试验，完全确认了新研发试验用氢弹的技术数据都正确，科学地证明了小型化氢弹的威力。
It was confirmed that the H-bomb test conducted in a safe and perfect manner had no adverse impact on the ecological environment.
此次爆炸试验用氢弹，安全而完美地举行，已经确认它对周边生态环境未产生任何负面影响。
The test means a higher stage of the DPRK's development of nuclear force.
此次氢弹试验是朝鲜核武装发展的更高阶段。
By succeeding in the H-bomb test in the most perfect manner to be specially recorded in history the DPRK proudly joined the advanced ranks of nuclear weapons states possessed of even H-bomb and the Korean people came to demonstrate the spirit of the dignified nation equipped with the most powerful nuclear deterrent.
通过最完美地举行彪炳祖国史册的氢弹试验，朝鲜堂堂地进入了拥有氢弹的核国家前列，朝鲜人民弘扬了具备最强核遏制力的高尊严的民族气概。
This test is a measure for self-defence the DPRK has taken to firmly protect the sovereignty of the country and the vital right of the nation from the ever-growing nuclear threat and blackmail by the US-led hostile forces and to reliably safeguard the peace on the Korean Peninsula and regional security.
朝鲜实施氢弹试验，是针对以美国为首的敌对势力变本加厉的核威胁和恐吓，为彻底捍卫国家主权和民族生存权，坚决维护朝鲜半岛和平与地区安全而采取的自卫措施。
Since the appearance of the word hostility in the world there has been no precedent of such deep-rooted, harsh and persistent policy as the hostile policy the US has pursued towards the DPRK.
世上产生“敌视”一词以来，像美国的“对朝敌视”那样根深蒂固、蛮横无理、顽固不化的，尚属首次。
The US is a gang of cruel robbers which has worked hard to bring even a nuclear disaster to the DPRK, not content with having imposed the thrice-cursed and unheard-of political isolation, economic blockade and military pressure on it for the mere reason that it has differing ideology and social system and refuses to yield to the former's ambition for aggression.
只因思想和制度不同、不向其侵略野心低头，进行忍无可忍、史无前例的政治孤立、经济封锁和军事打压还嫌不够，甚至疯狂企图施加核浩劫的穷凶极恶的强盗不是别人，正是美国。
The Korean Peninsula and its vicinity are turning into the world's biggest hotspot where a nuclear war may break out since they have been constantly stormed with all nuclear strike means of the US imperialist aggressor troops, including nuclear carrier strike group and nuclear strategic flying corps.
包括美国侵略军核航母战斗群和核战略机群在内的所有核打击手段不断扑向朝鲜半岛及其周边，这里因此变成世界最大的热点地区和核战争着火点。
While kicking up all forms of economic sanctions and conspiratorial "human rights" racket against the DPRK with mobilization of the hostile forces, the US has made desperate efforts to block its building of a thriving nation and improvement of the people's living standard and "bring down its social system".
美国纠结敌对势力，进行各种各样的对朝经济制裁和阴险的“人权”骚动，拼命企图阻挠朝鲜建设强盛国家和改善人民生活，并实现“崩溃制度”。
The DPRK's access to H-bomb of justice, standing against the US, the chieftain of aggression watching for a chance for attack on it with huge nukes of various types, is the legitimate right of a sovereign state for self-defense and a very just step no one can slander.
针对以庞大的各种核杀人武器虎视眈眈窥伺侵略机会的侵略元凶美国，朝鲜掌握正义的氢弹，是主权国家合法的自卫权利，不容任何人议论的堂堂正正的措施。
Genuine peace and security cannot be achieved through humiliating solicitation or compromise at the negotiating table.
真正的和平与安全，绝不来自任何屈辱的请求或妥协的谈判桌上。
The present-day grim reality clearly proves once again the immutable truth that one's destiny should be defended by one's own efforts.
当今的严峻现实再次清楚地证明了只有靠自己力量才能捍卫自己命运这一铁的真理。
Nothing is more foolish than dropping a hunting gun before herds of ferocious wolves.
如果说狼群猛扑上来的时候放下猎枪，这是再愚蠢不过的。
The spectacular success made by the DPRK in the H-bomb test this time is a great deed of history, a historic event of the national significance as it surely guarantees the eternal future of the nation.
此次朝鲜举行氢弹试验取得辉煌的大成功，是坚如磐石般地保证民族千万年未来的历史性大壮举、民族史上的一大事件。
The DPRK is a genuine peace-loving state which has made all efforts to protect peace on the Korean Peninsula and security in the region from the US vicious nuclear war scenario.
朝鲜是真正的爱护和平国家，为粉碎美国凶恶的核战争企图，保障朝鲜半岛和平和地区安全做出一切努力。
The DPRK, a responsible nuclear weapons state, will neither be the first to use nuclear weapons nor transfer relevant means and technology under any circumstances as already declared as long as the hostile forces for aggression do not encroach upon its sovereignty.
只要敌对的侵略势力不侵犯朝鲜的主权，正如自己已经阐明，朝鲜作为负责任的核国家，不会先使用核武器，在任何情况下也不会转让相关手段和技术。
There can neither be suspended nuclear development nor nuclear dismantlement on the part of the DPRK unless the US has rolled back its vicious hostile policy toward the former.
只要美国不终结穷凶极恶的对朝敌视政策，那么即使天塌下来，朝鲜也绝不会中断核开发或放弃核武。
The army and people of the DPRK will steadily escalate its nuclear deterrence of justice both in quality and quantity to reliably guarantee the future of the revolutionary cause of Juche for all ages.
朝鲜正义的核遏制力可靠地保证主体革命事业的千万年未来，朝鲜军民将从质量和数量上不断加以加强。
Juche Korea will be prosperous forever as it holds fast to the great WPK's line of simultaneously pushing forward the two fronts.
高举伟大的朝鲜劳动党并举路线阔步前进的主体朝鲜将无穷繁荣。
