North Korea has expelled a reporter from the BBC after detaining him at the airport and keeping him in the country for three days past his scheduled departure date.
朝鲜已将一名英国广播公司(BBC)记者驱逐出境。此前，朝鲜当局在平壤机场拘留了他，导致他在朝鲜比预定离境日期多停留了3天。
Rupert Wingfield-Hayes, the broadcaster’s Tokyo correspondent, was supposed to leave the totalitarian state last Friday after spending a week travelling with a delegation of Nobel laureates who were visiting the country.
BBC驻东京记者傅东飞(Rupert Wingfield-Hayes)原本定于上周五离开这个极权国家，此前他陪同一个访朝的诺贝尔奖(Nobel Prize)得主代表团在朝逗留了一周。
But he was separated from his cameraman and producer at the airport, taken to a hotel in Pyongyang, interrogated for eight hours and forced to sign a statement of apology for the reporting he had done while in the country.
但当傅东飞来到机场时，朝鲜当局却将他与他的摄像师和制片人分隔开来，并将他带到平壤一家酒店，讯问了他8个小时。他被迫签署了一份声明，为他在朝期间所做的报道道歉。
He was eventually allowed to return to the hotel on an island in the middle of the river that runs through Pyongyang, where about 130 journalists from around the world are staying at the invitation of the North Korean government.
最后，他获准回到原先入住的酒店。这家酒店位于流经平壤的一条江中的一座岛上，目前有大约130名应朝鲜政府之邀来朝的国际记者住在这里。
The foreign journalists, including two from the Financial Times, are supposedly in the country to cover a historic congress of the ruling Worker’s party of Korea but have so far not been allowed anywhere near the events.
包括英国《金融时报》两名记者在内的外国记者，本应在朝报道该国执政党朝鲜劳动党历史性的党代会，但迄今却一直被禁止接近会场。
Instead, they have been taken to a factory making electric cables, a silk mill, the Pyongyang metro, the birthplace of former President Kim Il Sung, a square in the centre of Pyongyang and the home of a model worker.
他们反而被带去参观一家电缆厂、一家丝绸厂、平壤地铁、朝鲜前最高领导人金日成(Kim Il Sung)出生地、平壤市中心一座广场以及一位劳模的住所。
All media outlets have been assigned a “guide” who speaks their language fluently and accompanies them everywhere whenever the group is taken out of the hotel.
每家媒体机构都被配备了一名通晓他们语言的“向导”，只要这家媒体机构被带出酒店，无论他们去哪里，这名“向导”都会陪同他们。
The guides have made clear that reporters are not to venture out of the hotel on their own under any circumstances. This has made it all but impossible to do any independent reporting.
这些“向导”明确表示，记者在任何情况下都不准独自离开酒店。记者们因此几乎不可能展开任何独立的报道。
Mr Wingfield Hayes arrived in Pyongyang several days before most other reporters and was not specifically there to cover the congress.
傅东飞比其他多数记者早几天抵达平壤，他来平壤并非专门为了报道此次党代会。
During his week in the country accompanying a “peace delegation” of Nobel laureates, the North Korean authorities expressed their deep displeasure at the content of his reports and broadcasts but he did not have any indication he was going to be detained.
在他陪同一个由诺贝尔奖得主组成的“和平代表团”访朝的一周里，朝鲜当局对他报道和播出的内容深感不悦，但没有任何迹象表明他会遭拘留。
Last Friday, when they realised he had not been allowed to join them in the departure lounge, Mr Wingfield-Hayes’ producer and cameraman refused to board the flight and were taken to a separate hotel.
上周五，当傅东飞的制片人和摄像师意识到傅东飞未获准与他们一起进入候机大厅时，两人拒绝登机并被带到了另一家酒店。
After eight hours of interrogation by the North Korean State Security Bureau, Mr Wingfield-Hayes signed an apology and was permitted to rejoin his two colleagues in the early hours of Saturday morning. They were then taken back to the hotel on the island, where four more BBC journalists are staying.
在被朝鲜国家安全保卫部(North Korean State Security Bureau)讯问8小时后，傅东飞签署了一封道歉声明，并获准在上周六凌晨回到他的两名同事身边。他们随后被带回到岛上的那家酒店，那家酒店里还住着另外4名BBC记者。
On Monday Mr Wingfield-Hayes, his producer and cameraman were permitted to travel to the airport to fly out of North Korea and the authorities held an impromptu press conference to announce they were expelling him and that he was not welcome to return to the country.
周一，傅东飞、他的制片人及摄像师获准赶赴机场飞离朝鲜，朝鲜当局召开了一个临时记者会，宣布他们将驱逐傅东飞，而且不欢迎他再来朝鲜。
Reporters who attended the press conference said the authorities particularly objected to a report in which North Korea’s supreme leader Kim Jong Un was referred to as “corpulent”.
出席此次记者会的记者表示，朝鲜当局尤其反对一篇称朝鲜最高领导人金正恩(Kim Jong Un)“肥胖”的报道。
