The chief executive of Baidu has said the Chinese search engine must reform or face “bankruptcy in 30 days”, following a scandal over an advertisement for cancer therapy.
百度(Baidu)首席执行官表示，这家中国搜索引擎必须改革，否则“离破产就真的只有30天”。此前百度被卷入一场围绕癌症治疗广告的丑闻。
“Our values have become distorted, and financial performance has become more important to us than user experience,” Robin Litold employees a day after Cyberspace Administration, China’s internet regulator, imposed controls on medical advertising on the site.
“我们的价值观被挤压变形了，业绩增长凌驾于用户体验，”李彦宏(Robin Li)对雇员们表示。一天前，中国互联网监管机构——国家网信办(Cyberspace Administration of China)出台了针对百度网站上医疗广告的控管措施。
The search engine has been under heightened scrutiny following the death of a 21-year-old student from a rare form of cancer in April. His parents said he used Baidu to search for alternative treatments, and paid Rmb200,000 ($31,000) for “biological immunotherapy” offered by a Beijing hospital. They added that the experimental treatment had no effect and led him to miss opportunities to use proven treatments.
该搜索引擎在一名21岁的学生4月死于一种罕见癌症后受到密切关注。他的父母表示，他曾在百度上搜索替代疗法，并支付了20万元人民币（合3.1万美元）接受北京一家医院提供的“生物免疫疗法”。他们补充说，这种实验性治疗没有效果，还导致他错过了接受经过验证的治疗的良机。
Since the scandal broke this month, Baidu’s share price has fallen more than 13 per cent as investors have questioned its dependence on an under-regulated medical industry for revenues.
自这场丑闻在本月初爆发以来，百度股价累计下跌超过13%，投资者质疑其依赖监管不足的医疗产业获得营收。
Healthcare accounts for 20-30 per cent of search income, according to Barclays, while search revenues represented 84 per cent of total sales in 2015.
据巴克莱银行(Barclays)介绍，医疗保健占搜索收入的20%至30%，而搜索收入占2015年总销售额的84%。
The regulator on Monday told Baidu to vet advertisers more carefully, mark and attach risk warnings to all paid search results more clearly. It also said ads must comprise only 30 per cent of results displayed on a page.
周一，网信办联合调查组要求百度更加认真地审核广告商资质，对搜索结果中的商业推广信息逐条加注醒目标识，并予以风险提示。监管者还要求严格限制商业推广信息比例，每页面不得超过30%。
Mark Natkin, head of Beijing-based Marbridge Consulting, said the Cyberspace Administration’s statement was vaguely worded and its financial impact on the company would only become clear in the coming days.
北京迈博瑞咨询(Marbridge Consulting)的马克•纳特金(Mark Natkin)表示，网信办的声明措辞含糊，对百度的财务影响要过几天才会变得明朗。
Mr Li pledged in his open letter to change Baidu’s corporate culture, which he said was “drifting away from its users” by focusing on profits. “If we lose the support of users, we lose hold of our values, and Baidu will truly go bankrupt in just 30 days,” he wrote, saying the crisis was worse than any incident the company had previously experienced.
李彦宏在他的公开信中承诺改变百度的企业文化；他承认，对利润念念不忘使该公司“与用户渐行渐远”。“如果失去了用户的支持，失去了对价值观的坚守，百度离破产就真的只有30天！”他写道。他说，这场危机比该公司以往经历过的任何事件都更加严重。
“I see senior engineers trapped in a conflict of interest between commercial interest and user experience, and often compromising the latter. Users are raising questions concerning the fairness and transparency of our commercial promotion results, and complaining about commercialisation of our products,” he said.
“我更多地……会看到一些高级工程师在平衡商业利益和用户体验之间纠结甚至妥协。用户也因此开始质疑我们商业推广的公平性和客观性，吐槽我们产品的安装策略，反对我们贴吧、百科等产品的过度商业化，”他表示。
In January, the company apologised after criticism over medical advice found on its online forums known as Tieba. Users had attacked the company for replacing the volunteer moderator of a board devoted to haemophilia with a for-profit clinic that paid Baidu for the privilege.
今年1月，该公司在其网上论坛“贴吧”上的医疗建议招致批评后作出了道歉。当时，用户抨击该公司赶走血友病贴吧的志愿吧主，用一家向百度付费的盈利性诊所取而代之。
