 China’s premier is pushing for debt-for-equity swaps and more aggressive measures to reduce the burden on struggling local governments as Beijing tries to capitalise on improved indications for economic growth in the first quarter.
 中国总理李克强正在推动债转股和更为激进的措施以减轻挣扎中的地方政府的负担。与此同时，北京方面试图利用第一季度经济增长好转的迹象。
 Premier Li Keqiang said yesterday that some localities would be allowed to reduce contributions to social security funds while all central budgetary investment would be allocated in the first half.
 李克强昨日表示，一些地方将被允许阶段性降低“五险一金”，同时中央预算内投资上半年要全部下拨。
 “Policy measures taken so far have paid off. At the same time, a lot remains to be done to ensure steady growth, advance reform and achieve further restructuring of the economy,” Mr Li said at a meeting of provincial leaders.
 “前期采取的一系列政策措施效应不断显现，同时稳增长促改革调结构还需加码发力，”李克强在部分省（市）政府主要负责人经济形势座谈会上表示。
 The remarks were published after data released yesterday showed China’s producer prices remain deep in deflation. Last month’s producer prices index, an important gauge of the woes plaguing China’s industrial and export sectors, dropped 4.3 per cent, easing only slightly from a 4.9 per cent drop in February. Consumer prices rose 2.3 per cent, largely on the back of a sharp jump in pork prices. Non-food inflation remained modest at 1 per cent.
 李克强的这些言论发表之前，昨日公布的数据显示，中国的生产者价格仍深陷通缩区间。上月的生产者价格指数(PPI)——衡量中国工业和出口部门困境的重要指标——同比下降4.3%，仅比2月份4.9%的降幅略有缓和。消费价格指数(CPI)同比上涨2.3%，主要原因是猪肉价格大幅上扬。非食品通胀率仍处于1%这一较低水平。
 Chinese officials have been scrambling to paint a more optimistic picture of the economy. While recent data suggest there is some stabilisation, international jitters remain over the slowdown and the extent of the government’s efforts to rebalance towards consumption. A fuller picture is set to emerge this week, with the release of trade data tomorrow, followed by first quarter economic growth numbers on Friday.
 中国官员近来忙于往乐观的方向描绘经济局面。尽管最近的数据似乎表明形势有一定企稳，但国际间仍对中国经济放缓和政府推动经济再平衡、让消费扮演更大角色的努力感到不安。本周将呈现更加完整的经济图景，贸易数据将在明日发布，第一季度经济增长数据将在周五发布。
 Despite the more positive March figure, PPI remains deep in deflation, according to Zhou Hao, economist with Commerzbank. “From the Chinese authorities’ perspective, it is far more important to get rid of [PPI] deflation.”
 德国商业银行(Commerzbank)经济学家周浩表示，尽管3月的数据相对更为积极，但中国的PPI仍深陷通缩区间。“从中国政府的视角看，摆脱（PPI）通缩要重要得多。”
 China’s PPI has been in negative territory since March 2012, a symptom of heavy industrial spending courtesy of Beijing’s Rmb4tn ($618bn) stimulus to counteract the effects of the global financial crisis. The subsequent price deflation in sectors such as steel has rippled around the globe, adding to tensions between Beijing and its two largest trading partners, the EU and the US.
 自2012年3月以来，中国的PPI一直处于负值区域，这是北京方面为抵消全球金融危机的影响而出台的4万亿元人民币（合6180亿美元）刺激计划所导致的巨额工业支出的一个症状。随后造成的钢铁等行业的价格通缩的冲击波传遍全球，加剧了北京方面与欧盟和美国这两大贸易伙伴之间的紧张。
 Blowback from lower commodity prices compounded the trend, since industrial input costs account for three-quarters of the country’s PPI. But as a large importer of oil and iron ore, China also benefited from the end of the commodity boom as large trade surpluses helped bolster flagging economic growth.
 大宗商品价格下降进一步加剧了中国PPI下降的趋势，因为工业投入成本占中国PPI的四分之三。但是，作为石油和铁矿石的大规模进口国，中国也受益于大宗商品繁荣的终结，巨额贸易顺差帮助支撑疲弱的经济增长。
 “Today’s data suggest [China’s central bank] will be less aggressive in monetary easing,” said analysts at ANZ Research, who are now predicting just one more cut this year in the level of reserves banks are required to hold. ANZ had previously expected three additional cuts in the reserve requirement ratio by the end of the year.
 “今日的数据似乎表明，中国央行将在放松货币政策方面降低一些力度，”澳新银行经济研究部(ANZ Research)的分析师们表示。他们现在预测，今年中国央行将只会再下调一次银行存款准备金率。此前该行预计中国央行在今年底之前将把存准率再下调三次。
 China’s benchmark stock index, the CSI 300, rose more than 1 per cent on the inflation data. The renminbi also strengthened against the dollar. It has risen almost 2 per cent against the greenback over the past two months.
 通胀数据发布后，中国基准股指沪深300(CSI 300)攀升逾1%。人民币相对于美元走高。过去两个月来，人民币对美元累计上涨近2%。
