The mystery surrounding the disappearance from Hong Kong of a publisher who sold books critical of China’s top leaders has taken another twist after his wife asked police to cancel her missing person’s report.
李波的妻子已要求警方撤销她的失踪人口报案，令这位出版人在香港的失踪之谜又生转折。李波曾销售批评中国最高领导层的图书。
Hong Kong police said his wife, who reported Lee Bo missing last week, tried to rescind the report on Monday but they were still investigating the case “in a proactive manner”, in line with rules that only the missing person themselves can close such a case.
李波的妻子在上周报案李波失踪，香港警方表示她已试图在周一销案，但他们仍在“积极主动地”调查此案。依据香港法规，只有失踪者本人可以撤销这类案件。
Meanwhile, Taiwan’s state news agency published a handwritten letter that it said had been faxed by Mr Lee to a colleague at their Causeway Bay Bookstore, in which the publisher said that he had gone to the mainland urgently and of his own volition to “co-operate with a relevant investigation”.
与此同时，台湾官方通讯社刊登了一封手写信，据说是由李波传真给他在铜锣湾书店的一名同事。这位出版商在信中表示他出于自己的意志，紧急回到内地“配合有关方面调查”。
In an editorial published on Tuesday, the Global Times, lent support to the theory that Mr Lee was “assisting an investigation” in the mainland before launching an attack on his business.
《环球时报》(Global Times)周二发表的社论先是支持了李波正在内地“协助调查”的说法，接着对李波的业务发起抨击。
“Causeway Bay Books almost only publishes and sells mainland-related political books, many of which contain maliciously fabricated content,” it said. “Those books have through various channels entered into the mainland and have become a source of certain political rumours, which have caused some evil influence to some extent.”
China’s foreign ministry has said it had no information on the case.
中国外交部表示对此事无可奉告。
Human rights campaigners say that security forces in China often detain dissidents and those accused of political crimes without informing their family or explaining why they are being held.
人权活动者表示中国的安保机构经常扣留持不同政见者以及被指控犯有政治罪的人士，却不通知他们的家人，也不解释为什么他们会被扣留。
But they have no legal right to operate in Hong Kong, a point reinforced on Monday by CY Leung, the territory’s chief executive, who added that there was as yet “no indication” that China was involved in the disappearance of the booksellers.
但香港特别行政区行政长官梁振英(CY Leung)在周一强调，内地执法人员并没有权利在港执法，并表示尚无迹象显示内地参与了李波失踪事件。
