Jamie Dimon, chairman and chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, sought yesterday to ease market jitters over China, urging investors to focus on the “pretty good” US economy as well as the “winners” from a collapse in commodities.
摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)董事长兼首席执行官杰米戴蒙(Jamie Dimon)昨日力求缓解市场对中国的恐慌，敦促投资者专注于“相当不错”的美国经济，以及从大宗商品价格暴跌获益的“赢家”。
Bank stocks have been particularly hard hit in the 2016 market sell-off, which has been exacerbated by wild swings in Chinese markets and mounting fears over the effects of a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy.
2016年伊始的市场抛售期间，银行股受到的打击尤为沉重。加剧此次抛售的原因包括中国市场的剧烈波动，以及对全球第二大经济体增长放缓的担忧渐长。
But Mr Dimon, chairman and chief executive of the largest US bank by assets, tried to dispel anxieties as he played his traditional role of kicking off the sector's fourth-quarter earnings season.
但戴蒙试图打消疑虑，如往常一样，以资产计美国最大银行的掌门人拉开了银行业第四季度财报的帷幕。
The economy “looks pretty good at this point”, he said, adding that millions of employed Americans did not care at all about “turmoil” in world markets.
戴蒙表示，美国经济形势“眼下看起来相当不错”，他补充说，数以百万计的美国就业者根本不关心世界市场的“动荡”。
“If you have commodity prices go down like that, you get big winners and losers...Brazil gets hurt, India benefits, South Korea benefits, Japan benefits, and those kind of trickling waters,” he said. “Hopefully, this will all settle down and it’s not the beginning of something really bad.”
“如果大宗商品价格照这样下跌，就会产生大赢家和输家……巴西痛苦，印度受益，韩国受益，日本受益，这些动态会产生涟漪效应。但愿这一切都将平静下来，不是什么真正糟糕局面的开端。”
He maintained his sunny tone as he discussed a 10 per cent rise in the bank’s net profit for the quarter, after cost cuts compensated for sluggish results in investment banking and a near-50 per cent jump in provisions for bad loans.
他继续以乐观语气谈到，摩根大通第四季度净利润增长10%。此前该行削减了成本，以弥补投行业务低迷以及不良贷款拨备增加近50%的影响。
JPMorgan is often seen as a barometer for an industry still grappling with tougher post-crisis regulation, patchy client activity and ultra-low interest rates.
摩根大通往往被看作银行业的晴雨表，该行业仍在努力应对更严厉的危机后监管措施，客户活动起起伏伏以及超低利率。
By that token, the results were encouraging, showing a slight lift in net revenues across the group and a 7 per cent fall in non-interest expenses, thanks largely to lower pay in the trading division and a drop in legal costs.
照此看来，摩根大通的财报令人鼓舞，集团净营收微幅上升，非利息支出下降了7%，这主要归功于交易部门的较低薪资支出以及法律费用下降。
Net income came to $5.4bn, or $1.32 a share, beating analysts’ expectations. JPMorgan shares were up about 2.5 per cent in early New York trading, paring a loss for the year to about 11 per cent.
净利润达到54亿美元，相当于每股1.32美元，超出分析师预期。纽约市场早盘期间摩根大通股价上涨约2.5%，将今年迄今的下跌收窄至约11%。
