Bernie Sanders has won the West Virginia primary, a sign of his enduring support — and the apathy for Hillary Clinton among West Virginia voters.
伯尼•桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)赢得了西弗吉尼亚州民主党初选。这一迹象表明，桑德斯仍受到很多选民的支持，而希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)却不受西弗吉尼亚州选民的爱戴。
While Mrs Clinton carried West Virginia in the 2008 primary — and Bill Clinton won the state in the 1992 and 1996 elections — Tuesday night’s result demonstrates the extent to which the Clintons have fallen from favour in the state, foreshadowing a big victory for Donald Trump in West Virginia come November.
尽管希拉里曾在2008年的初选中拿下西弗吉尼亚州，而且比尔•克林顿(Bill Clinton)也曾在1992年和1996年的选举中赢得该州的支持，但周二晚的结果显示出，现在克林顿夫妇在该州是多么的不得宠。这预示着，唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)有望在11月份的大选中在西弗吉尼亚州获得大胜。
With 42 per cent of the votes counted, Mr Sanders was projected to have taken 50.5 per cent of the Democratic primary vote, and Mrs Clinton 39 per cent, according to Associated Press.
据美联社(Associated Press)报道，统计完42%的选票后，预计桑德斯最终的得票率为50.5%，希拉里为39%。
More significantly, Trump also appears popular among a swath of registered Democratic and Independent voters in the state. According to exit polls compiled by CBS, 44 per cent of supporters of Mr Sanders in West Virginia said they would vote for Mr Trump in the general election, while just 22 per cent said they planned to vote for Mrs Clinton.
更为重要的是，特朗普似乎在该州受到大批登记为民主党选民和独立选民的人士的欢迎。CBS汇编的出口民调显示，在西弗吉尼亚州支持桑德斯的选民，有44%表示将在大选中把票投给特朗普，而只有22%表示打算投给希拉里。
Among all Democratic primary voters, a third said they would vote for the eventual Democratic nominee, while 27 per cent said they would instead back Mr Trump, according to NBC News.
NBC新闻(NBC News)的数据显示，在所有民主党初选选民中，有三分之一表示将把票投给最终的民主党被提名人，有27%表示将转而支持特朗普。
Mrs Clinton's loss will play into Mr Sanders’ argument that some of the Democratic super delegates — the party elite members who cast votes at the Democratic National Convention — are not reflecting the will of the voters and should switch allegiances to his side.
希拉里的此次失利佐证了桑德斯的一个论点：民主党的一些“超级代表”（有权在民主党全国代表大会(Democratic National Convention)上投票的该党精英成员）并没有反映出选民的意愿，他们应当转而支持他。
Though the outcome will probably do little to shape the outcome of the primary race, where Mr Sanders trails Mrs Clinton by more than 250 pledged delegates, it has given another boost to his underdog campaign, which continues to tick off state victories, despite most media outlets proclaiming Mrs Clinton as the Democrats’ presumptive nominee.
尽管西弗吉尼亚州的结果很可能影响不了民主党初选的最终结果（桑德斯拿到的党代表票数落后希拉里逾250张），但它对桑德斯处于劣势的竞选活动是又一个提振。尽管多数媒体机构宣称希拉里为民主党的假定被提名人，但桑德斯仍在一个又一个州赢得初选。
In West Virginia, which has shifted from Democratic-leaning to Republican-leaning in the past few years, Mrs Clinton faces an uphill battle. Many residents blame the decline of the state’s coal industry on the Environmental Protection Agency under Barack Obama, which has imposed new limits on power plant emissions of carbon dioxide.
在西弗吉尼亚州，希拉里面临一场艰难的选战。过去几年，该州已从倾向于民主党变为倾向于共和党。该州很多居民将该州煤炭行业的衰落归咎于巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)政府的美国环保署(Environmental Protection Agency)，该署对发电厂二氧化碳排放施加了新的限制。
Voters say she hurt her chances even further after declaring in a town hall earlier this year that under her presidency “we’re going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business”. Confronted about the comment at a meeting in coal country last week, Mrs Clinton attempted to walk the comment back, emphasising her $30bn plan to diversify coal country and retrain workers, and offering up an apology by way of saying she had misspoken.
今年早些时候，希拉里曾在一个市政厅宣称，如果她担任总统，“我们将让大量煤矿工人和煤炭企业破产”。选民们表示，这番话进一步拖累了她的得票率。上周在美国煤炭区的一次会议上，当被问到她的上述说法时，希拉里试图收回这番话，她强调计划拨出300亿美元，用于煤炭区的多元化发展和工人的再培训，并道歉称自己当时说错了话。
Since Mr Trump became the Republicans’ presumptive nominee, Mrs Clinton has tried to turn her attention to the general election. Yet Mr Sanders continues to wage a competitive primary fight thanks to millions of dollars in donations from grass roots supporters and is expected to have a strong showing in upcoming primaries in Kentucky, Oregon, California and North and South Dakota.
自特朗普成为共和党的假定被提名人后，希拉里已试图将注意力转向大选。然而，凭借草根支持者提供的数百万美元捐款，桑德斯仍在展开有力的初选竞争，预计他将在即将到来的肯塔基州、俄勒冈州、加利福尼亚州、北达科他州和南达科他州初选中有不俗表现。
