The world has entered a “new cold war,” Russian prime minister Dmitry Medvedev said on Saturday, as he held out an olive branch to western powers, urging conciliation.
俄罗斯总理德米特里蔠德韦杰夫(Dmitry Medvedev)周六表示，世界进入了“新的冷战”。他同时向西方大国递出橄榄枝，敦促进行和解。
“Sometimes I think, are we in 2016 or 1962?” Mr Medvedev asked, in a speech that reeled off the long list of familiar Russian grievances — from Nato expansion to western regime change projects — but also included some of the firmest calls for rapprochement with Europe and the US since Moscow’s annexation of Crimea two years ago.
梅德韦杰夫在一场演讲中问道：“有时我在想，我们现在是在2016年还是在1962年？”他列举了人们熟悉的俄罗斯抱怨（从北约扩张到西方的政权更迭项目），但也发出了自两年前莫斯科吞并克里米亚以来最为明确的与欧美和解的呼吁。
Many western diplomats and politicians — gathered in Munich this weekend for an annual security conference of world leaders — nevertheless remain deeply wary of Russia.
然而，周六汇聚慕尼黑出席世界领导人年度安全大会的许多西方外交官和政界人士，仍对俄罗斯抱有深层次戒备心理。
Speaking shortly after Mr Medvedev, Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg accused Russia of “destabilising the European security order” and said the Kremlin was using its nuclear arsenal to bully neighbours in a way that would not have been countenanced even during the cold war.
在梅德韦杰夫演讲后不久，北约秘书长延斯斯托尔滕贝格(Jens Stoltenberg)指责俄罗斯“破坏欧洲安全秩序”，并称克里姆林宫利用其核武器欺压邻国，即便在冷战期间也不会纵容这种行为。
“Russia’s rhetoric, posture and exercises of its nuclear forces are aimed at intimidating its neighbours, undermining trust and stability in Europe,” Mr Stoltenberg said.
Russia’s ongoing military activities in Syria, where its air force has instigated a massive bombing campaign to support the regime of President Bashar al-Assad against US-backed moderate rebels, remains a particular bone of contention — despite a ceasefire agreement brokered by Moscow and Washington in the early hours of Friday morning.
俄罗斯在叙利亚正在展开的军事行动依然是争论的焦点，尽管莫斯科和华盛顿在周五上午早些时候调停各方签署了停火协议。俄罗斯空军在叙利亚进行了大规模的轰炸活动，以支持巴沙尔阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统的政权对美国支持的温和派叛军的打击。
The deal, which promises a temporary cessation of hostilities in Syria by the end of the coming week, is regarded by many as likely to fail at Russian hands.
该协议承诺到下周末暂停敌意行动，许多人认为这份协议可能毁于俄罗斯之手。
Russia has shown no sign yet of de-escalating its aerial activities — though the deal contains a provision for their immediate rollback in the lead up to a full cessation of fighting by Friday.
俄罗斯迄今没有表现出减小空中打击力度的任何迹象，尽管协议条款规定立即减缓行动，以迎接下周五完全停火。
Some diplomats point to a more accommodating message in Mr Medvedev’s speech — and in the Syria agreement — from the Kremlin, however.
然而，一些外交官指出，梅德韦杰夫的演讲以及叙利亚协议传达了克里姆林宫更愿意和解的信息。
