Marissa Mayerhas vowed to stay at the helm of Yahoo as it attempts to bundle its core assets into a new listed company after the board abandoned plans to spin off its $32bn stake in Chinese ecommerce group Alibaba.
玛丽莎蔠耶(Marissa Mayer，见上图)誓言要继续执掌雅虎(Yahoo)，该公司正试图将核心资产捆绑到一家新的上市公司，此前董事会放弃了剥离其所持320亿美元中国电商集团阿里巴巴(Alibaba)股份的计划。
Ms Mayer said she believed deeply in the future of the internet company, despite her role at the top being questioned by analysts. “I’m very proud of the accomplishments we have made and there’s a lot more I’d like to see done here. So I have no intention of stepping down,” she told the Financial Times.
梅耶表示，她深信这家互联网公司的未来，尽管她的掌舵人角色受到分析师们的质疑。“我对我们已经取得的成就深感自豪，这里还有很多事是我希望看到完成的。所以我不打算下台，”她对英国《金融时报》表示。
Yahoo has admitted that the reverse spin-off of its core business, a proposal to package assets stretching from search to media and communications apps into a new publicly listed company, could take up to a year to pull off.
雅虎承认，反向分拆其核心业务（把搜索、媒体和通信应用等资产打包到一家新的公开上市公司）可能需要长达一年时间才能完成。
Splitting those assets from the company’s 15 per cent Alibaba stake will be a complex transaction, demanding a shareholder vote, Securities and Exchange Commission approval and redrawing of contracts.
把这些资产与该公司所持15%阿里巴巴股份分开，将是一笔复杂的交易，要求股东投票批准、美国证交会(SEC)审批以及重新订立合同。
The Silicon Valley company confirmed yesterday that it had walked away from the Alibaba spin-off, which was announced in February and was due to take place at the end of this year.
这家硅谷公司昨日证实，它已放弃剥离阿里巴巴股份的计划，该计划是在今年2月宣布的，本来定于今年底进行。
Maynard Webb, Yahoo chairman, said that while the board believed a spin-off would have been tax free, it was concerned about the market’s perception of the risk of a large tax bill weighing on the valuation of the new company. “The board remains committed to accomplishing the significant business purposes and shareholder benefits that can be realised by separating the Alibaba stake from the rest of Yahoo. To achieve this, we will now focus our efforts on the reverse spin-off plan,”he said.
雅虎董事长梅纳德韦伯(Maynard Webb)表示，尽管董事会相信剥离交易将是免税的，但担忧市场眼里的高额税单风险将拖累公司估值。“董事会将继续致力于通过分割阿里巴巴股份与雅虎的其它资产，实现重要的企业使命和股东利益。为了实现这一目标，现在我们将专注于反向分拆计划方面的努力，”他表示。
Yahoo said it was not considering a sale of the core business, although people familiar with the matter said that was one option.
雅虎表示，它并没有考虑出售核心业务，尽管知情人士透露，这曾经是一个选项。
Mr Webb said: “There is no determination by the board to sell the company or any part of it. We believe the business remains very undervalued and we’re focused on realising that value.”
The reverse spin-off, along with the disposal of its stake in Yahoo Japan, posed a much lower tax risk, those briefed on the situation said.
据听取了有关情况的人士表示，反向分拆，以及出售其在雅虎日本(Yahoo Japan)所持股份，构成了低得多的税务风险。
Yahoo’s reversal comes months after US authorities refused to give any guidance on whether the Alibaba spin-off would be tax-free, as the company had originally said in February.
雅虎改变决定的几个月前，美国有关部门拒绝就剥离阿里巴巴股份是否免税提供指引，雅虎在2月声称这笔交易应该是免税的。 
