Having endured a long and gradual recovery from the financial crisis of 2008, Britain now offers some of the best prospects for job seekers in Europe, research suggests.
研究显示，英国在2008年金融危机后渡过了一段漫长而缓慢的经济复苏期，如今它却为欧洲的求职者们提供了一些极具发展前景的选择。
On a global level, Estonia and Norway enjoy the strongest job prospects, followed by the US, UK, Austria, Denmark and Germany, recruitment experts Glassdoor said.
美国职业社区网站Glassdoor上的招聘专家称，从全球层面上说，爱沙尼亚和挪威的就业前景最为可观，其次是美国、英国、奥地利、丹麦和德国。
Sluggish economic performance has hampered employment levels in Greece, Spain and Portugal, with job seekers in these countries facing the worst job prospects, the report adds.
该研究还表明，萧条的经济效益已经牵制了希腊、西班牙和葡萄牙的就业水平，这些国家的求职者将面临着最糟糕的职业前景。
In terms of the scale of the recovery since the onset of the financial crisis, Germany has impressed, with employment returning to pre-crisis levels, Glassdoor said.
Glassdoor网站称，金融危机爆发以来，就经济复苏的规模而言，德国的就业情况已回到危机之前的水平，这着实令人钦佩。
In the UK, economic performance is 'growing strongly', meaning employment is expanding 'quite fast', the research suggests.
研究显示，在英国，经济效益蒸蒸日上，这意味着就业发展正势如破竹。
In Greece and Spain, at least 25 percent of the population is unemployed. In France, Portugal, Ireland and Italy the rate of unemployment is at least 10 percent.
在希腊和西班牙，至少有百分之二十五的人口处于待业状态；并且，法国、葡萄牙、爱尔兰和意大利的失业率也达到了百分之十以上。
At 5 percent or less, Germany, Switzerland and Norway have the lowest percentage of people out of work, followed by around 6 percent in the UK and Austria.
德国、瑞士和挪威的失业率最低，全都不超过百分之五，其次是英国和奥地利，失业率保持在大约百分之六。
Youth unemployment is more than 50 percent in Greece and Spain, almost 43 percent in Italy and nearly 25 percent in France, Ireland and Belgium - significantly above the UK figure of 17 percent.
青年失业率在希腊和西班牙超过了百分之五十，在意大利将近百分之四十三，在法国、爱尔兰和比利时大约为百分之二十五，而英国的青年失业率远低于这些国家，仅为百分之十七。
Dr Andrew Chamberlain, Glassdoor's chief economist, said: 'European labour markets today are diverse and present myriad challenges, as well as opportunities, for job-seekers.
Glassdoor的首席经济学家安德鲁张伯伦博士说：“今天的欧洲劳动力市场形形色色，对求职者来说，挑战诸多，机会亦然。
'On the one hand, countries like the UK, Germany, Austria and Switzerland enjoy below average unemployment.
“一方面，英国、德国、奥地利和瑞士这类国家享有着低于平均水平的失业率。
'By contrast, Greece, Spain and Portugal have continued to struggle with double-digit unemployment and slow economic growth, partly due to inflexible labour market regulations that have proven difficult to reform in recent years.'
“相比之下，希腊、西班牙和葡萄牙将继续与两位数的失业率和缓慢的经济增长作斗争，部分原因在于，僵化的劳动力市场机制近年内难以得到改善。”
Since the financial crisis, there has been a notable surge in temporary or part-time work. Such roles often offer less-than-ideal working hours, little flexibility and low pay, Glassdoor said.
Glassdoor称，金融危机以来，临时工作和兼职工作出现了明显增加。这种工作的工作时长往往不如人意，机动性差，薪酬也低。
Temporary contracts are particularly common in Spain, the Netherlands, and Portugal, affecting more than two in ten of people employed.
临时合同在西班牙、荷兰和葡萄牙特别普遍，解决了百分之二十的人口就业问题。
The number of people in temporary roles is also relatively high in Sweden, France, and Finland, where it exceeds 15 percent.
在瑞典、法国和芬兰，临时工的人数也相对较高，超过了人口的百分之十五。
The proportion of people who work part-time but would rather be working full-time has increased everywhere since 2008 with the exception of Germany, Belgium and Sweden, the research reveals.
研究显示，2008年起，除德国、比利时和瑞典之外，各地倾向于全职工作的兼职工作者人数越来越多。
Countries which have the highest number of people working part-time while looking for full-time positions include Italy, Spain and Ireland.
寻求全职职位的兼职工作者人数最多的国家包括意大利、西班牙和爱尔兰。
