Washington and Brussels are scrambling to rebuild momentum for a landmark trade accord as signs grow that it is faltering under an increasingly bitter onslaught from politicians on both sides of the Atlantic.
华盛顿和布鲁塞尔正忙于为一项标志性的贸易协定重建动力。迹象显示，在大西洋两岸政客的猛烈抨击下，眼下该协定岌岌可危。
Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission, travelled to Paris yesterday to sell potentially the world’s biggest trade deal to one of the toughest constituencies in Europe — a convention of France’s mayors.
欧盟委员会(European Commission)主席让-克洛德•容克(Jean-Claude Juncker，见上图)昨日前往巴黎，向法国的市长们（欧洲最难对付的群体之一）兜售可能是全球最大的贸易协定。
He reassured them that the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership would not hurt their interests. “I believe that TTIP negotiations can yield a deal that will profit the European economy — our SMEs and our farmers — without harming standards,” he said.
容克向他们保证，《跨大西洋贸易与投资伙伴关系协定》(Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, TTIP)将不会损害他们的利益。他说：“我相信，TTIP谈判可以在不损害标准的情况下，缔结一个造福于欧洲经济（我们的中小企业和我们的农民）的协议。”
Frustrated by hardening opposition from Germany’s influential socialists and the French government, Mr Juncker has called for the 28 member states to reconfirm their commitment to the deal at a summit next month. The commission argues that the countries must show that they are “all rowing in the same direction”. Britain and Italy are strong supporters.
容克对德国具有影响力的社会党人和法国政府的强硬反对感到沮丧，他呼吁28个成员国在下月的峰会上重申它们对该协定的承诺。欧盟委员会辩称，这些国家必须表明，他们“全都向同一方向划船”。英国和意大利是TTIP的坚定支持者。
Speaking in Stockholm on a European tour to push TTIP, Michael Froman, President Barack Obama’s trade tsar, warned that there was no “Plan B” if talks were not concluded this year.
美国总统巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)的贸易谈判代表迈克•弗罗曼(Mike Froman)前往欧洲推动TTIP。他在斯德哥尔摩发表演讲时警告称，如果今年内不能完成谈判，不会有任何“B计划”。
“We either work together to help set the rules of the world, or we leave that role to others,” he said.
TTIP’s supporters have also been blindsided by increasing opposition to trade deals in the US, where Republican presidential hopeful Donald Trump has built his campaign around an antitrade message and Democrat Hillary Clinton has abandoned her support for a similar Pacific trade pact.
在美国，越来越多的人反对贸易协议，这令TTIP的支持者备受打击，共和党假定总统候选人唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)的竞选平台是建立在反对贸易的立场基础上的，而有望成为民主党候选人的希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)也放弃了她对类似的太平洋贸易协议的支持。
With the clock running out on Mr Obama’s presidency, officials on both sides now believe the window is closing for a deal to be reached and approved in Europe and the US before the end of the year. EU officials stress that they want to agree a working text by July. Failure to complete the agreement before a change in US administration could condemn the pact to years of drift.
随着奥巴马总统任期即将结束，欧美双方官员现在认为，该协议在今年底之前在欧洲和美国达成并获得批准的时间窗口正在关闭。欧盟官员强调，他们希望最迟在7月达成一个工作文本。如果未能在美国行政当局换届之前达成协议，可能会导致该协议被拖延数年。
France is the most vocal TTIP sceptic, largely because of fears that the deal could harm its farming sector and lessen the value of geographical indications that protect iconic French wines, cheeses and meats.
法国是最直言不讳的TTIP怀疑者，主要原因是该国担心，该协议可能会损害法国农业，削弱其地理标识的价值，这些标识保护着法国标志性的葡萄酒、奶酪和肉类。
