The EU made a show yesterday of the first deportations under its contentious plan to send refugees from Greece back to Turkey.
 欧盟(EU)昨日开始执行一项有争议的计划，高调地将首批难民从希腊遣返土耳其。
 A total of 202, mainly from Pakistan and Afghanistan, who had failed to apply formally for asylum in Greece, were sent back from Lesbos and Chios to the Turkish coastal town of Dikili.
 未能在希腊正式申请庇护的202名难民（主要来自巴基斯坦和阿富汗），从希腊的莱斯博斯和希俄斯被遣返至土耳其海港小镇迪基利。
 The move came as officials in Brussels and Athens tried to inject some momentum into the scheme before it faces the trickier legal and practical tasks of deporting refugees from countries such as Syria. “The tough cases are still to come,” warned one EU official.
 此举出台之际，欧盟和希腊官员试图在面临遣返叙利亚等国难民的更为棘手的法律和实际任务之前为该计划注入一些动力。一位欧盟官员警告称：“未来将出现难办的个案。”
 No other departures are scheduled despite Greek assurances at the weekend that 750 migrants would leave by tomorrow, raising concerns that the plan could quickly stall. “We can’t schedule another boat until we’ve gathered up enough to fill it who didn’t ask for asylum,” the official said.
 上周末，希腊表示，将有750名难民最迟在明日离开希腊，但目前没有预定其他难民遣返行程。这令人担心，该计划可能很快停顿。上述官员表示：“在我们集合足够多的未申请庇护的难民登船之前，我们不能安排下一艘船。”
 Further delays were expected, in spite of extra support from EU asylum officials, who will begin work later this week. It will take at least two weeks for each case to be decided, they said, leaving those in Greece facing a wait of months.
 尽管希腊将得到来自欧盟庇护官员的额外支持（他们将于本周晚些时候开始工作），但预计遣返工作将进一步推迟。官员们表示，每个遣返个案需要至少两周做出决定，这将导致滞留在希腊的难民要等上数月时间。
 Turkish officials raised tarpaulins to keep reporters, activists and workers from seeing into Dikili port, where the migrants were fingerprinted and examined by doctors, before being bussed to a camp more than 400km away.
 土耳其官员挂起帆布，阻止记者、活动人士和工作人员查看迪基利港的情况，在那里，移民被采录指纹并得到医生的检查，然后被大巴送往400多公里外的一个难民营。
 The bulk of those returned were from countries that are hardly ever granted asylum in the EU and regularly face deportation. Optional “return” schemes for citizens from countries such as Morocco and Pakistan have been oversubscribed for months, said officials in Greece.
 被遣返的多数难民来自几乎无法在欧盟获得庇护且经常被遣返的国家。据希腊官员称，针对摩洛哥和巴基斯坦等国公民的非强制“回国”计划已连续数月接到超额申请。
 International aid workers on Lesbos voiced doubts over whether those returned had been offered an opportunity to claim asylum, given the absence of interpreters and legal representatives. EU officials reiterated that the programme was legal. Kerin Hope
 在希腊莱斯博斯，国际援助工作人员对于被遣返的难民曾否得到机会申请庇护提出质疑，因为他们没有翻译和法律代表。欧盟官员重申，遣返计划是合法的。
