Uber, the controversial ride-hailing operator, has recruited a host of senior advisers including former European commissioner Neelie Kroes to help it navigate the many regulatory roadblocks it faces around the world.
有争议的叫车应用运营商优步(Uber)招募了一批高级顾问，包括曾经担任欧盟委员会专员的内莉•克勒斯(Neelie Kroes)，以帮助它对付在世界各地面临的许多监管障碍。
Ms Kroes, a former competition and telecoms regulator, was a vocal proponent for Uber while in office and a well-known critic of efforts to ban the company in countries such as Germany.
克勒斯是欧盟委员会前竞争和电信事务专员，在任期间曾发声支持优步，且以批评德国等国禁止优步的做法出名。
Ms Kroes is to join a new public policy advisory board to help Uber fight its way through these issues. Its other members range from Ray LaHood, former US transport secretary, to Princess Reema Bandar al-Saud, an advocate for women’s employment and mobility in Saudi Arabia.
克勒斯将加入一个新的公共政策顾问委员会，以帮助优步克服这些问题。其他成员包括美国前运输部长雷•拉胡德(Ray LaHood)，以及沙特阿拉伯的女性就业及驾车权倡导者瑞玛•班达尔•沙特公主(Princess Reema Bandar al-Saud)。
In an interview with the Financial Times, she said Uber still had plenty to learn. “Uber needs to communicate in a very different way . . . They have to take into account that there are still differences in culture,” she said. “Don’t think that everybody is attacking you.”
瑞玛•班达尔•沙特在接受英国《金融时报》采访时曾表示，优步还有许多地方需要学习。她说：“优步需要彻底改变沟通方式……他们必须考虑到依然存在的文化差异。不要觉得每个人都在攻击你。”
Uber’s ride-sharing services have run into countless political and regulatory obstacles since it began its rapid expansion three years ago, disrupting traditional taxi services. It has faced bans, the arrest of executives, and civil and criminal lawsuits in multiple countries.
优步自三年前开始快速扩张、扰乱传统出租车服务以来，其拼车服务遇到了无数政治和监管障碍。它面临着种种禁令，高管被捕，还在多个国家遭遇民事和刑事官司。
But some countries have started passing laws covering ride-sharing services, gradually helping Uber move out of legal grey areas and gain acceptance.
但是一些国家已开始通过涉及拼车服务的法律，逐步帮助优步走出法律灰色地带，获得认可。
“Two years ago there hadn’t been a single new law or regulation passed in the world around ride-sharing,” said David Plouffe, an Uber board adviser who was previously campaign manager for President Barack Obama of the US. “Now there has been a lot of momentum,” he added, pointing to laws passed in the US, Australia, the Philippines and Mexico, among other places.
优步董事会顾问、曾担任美国总统巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)的竞选经理的大卫•普劳夫(David Plouffe)表示：“两年前全世界没有通过一条新的法律法规是关于拼车的。现在已经有了很大势头。”他指出美国、澳大利亚、菲律宾和墨西哥等地纷纷通过了相关法律。
Advisory board members will meet twice a year and be compensated with shares in Uber.
顾问委员会成员每年举行两次会议，将获得优步股票作为报酬。
In Europe, Ms Kroes’ move may raise questions over the revolving door between governments and companies. Former European Commission officials have to observe an 18-month cooling-off before taking on lobbying roles in areas for which they were responsible.
在欧洲，克勒斯的举动可能引发有关政府与企业之间存在“旋转门”的问题。欧盟委员会前任官员必须经过一年半的冷却期，才能在其原来负责的领域担任游说职务。
Ms Kroes, who left Brussels in November 2014, dismissed the concerns. “I strongly believe in such positions, so it makes sense to give advice,” she said.
克勒斯于2014年11月离开布鲁塞尔，她对这种担忧不以为然，表示：“我坚信这些立场，因此有理由提供建议。”
