Hanergy Thin Film Power, the solar equipment maker being investigated by Hong Kong’s stock market regulator, is facing legal action for allegedly failing to pay rent on its high-rise office in the heart of the city.
正在接受香港证监会(SFC)调查的汉能薄膜发电(Hanergy Thin Film Power)面临着一桩官司，原因是这家太阳能设备制造商被控拖欠其在香港市中心高层写字楼的租金。
The dispute comes seven months after trading in shares of HTF was suspended, and suggests cash flow has suffered at mainland parent Hanergy Group, which had billed itself as one of China’s leading renewable energy firms.
这起纠纷是在汉能薄膜发电股票停牌7个月后发生的，它暗示着该公司在中国内地的母公司汉能集团(Hanergy Group)的现金流出了问题。汉能集团曾标榜自己是中国领先的可再生能源企业之一。
A writ filed this month with the high court in the former British colony alleged the embattled group had “wrongfully and without reasons failed to and/or refused to pay” HK$1.7m (US$219,000) in monthly rent, management charges and other fees since the start of November.
本月初提交给香港高等法院的一份令状指控，这家麻烦缠身的公司自11月初起便“不正当地和毫无缘由地拖欠和/或拒付”170万港元（合21.9万美元）的租金、管理费及其他费用。
The company has since vacated the premises on the 77th floor of the city’s Center skyscraper, leaving the doors padlocked and the floor littered with detritus.
该公司随后搬出了其在香港中环中心77楼的办公室，目前那里大门紧锁、碎屑遍地。
Until this year HTF was the world’s most valuable listed solar company, and Li Hejun, chairman of HTF and parent Hanergy Group, was briefly China’s richest man on paper.
直到今年，汉能薄膜发电还是全球最有价值的上市太阳能企业，该公司董事局主席兼母公司汉能集团董事长李河君一度在账面上成为中国首富。
However, suspicions were raised by the company’s reliance on its parent for almost all of its sales, and by unusual trading patterns in its stock. HTF is now under investigation by Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission.
但有人质疑汉能薄膜发电的销售收入几乎全部靠其母公司贡献，而且其股票的交易模式反常。汉能薄膜发电目前正接受香港证监会调查。
Mr Li has since blamed short sellers for the stock plunge and called the share suspension a “disaster”.
李河君后来将汉能薄膜发电股票暴跌归咎于卖空者，称此次股票停牌为一场“灾难”。
Neither HTF nor Hanergy group responded to inquiries from the Financial Times on Wednesday.
周三，汉能薄膜发电与汉能集团均未回应记者提出的问询。
The legal document pertaining to unpaid bills was filed on behalf of The Center (77) Ltd — a company run by executives from Cheung Kong Property Holdings including Victor Li, the elder son of Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing, one of Asia’s richest men.
指控汉能薄膜发电拖欠租金的法律文件是律师代表The Center (77) Ltd提交的。这是由长江实业地产控股(Cheung Kong Property Holdings)的高管们运营的一家企业，其中包括亚洲巨富、香港亿万富翁李嘉诚的长子李泽钜(Victor Li)。
