Saudi Arabia has ruled out a deal by major producers to cut oil output and warned high cost operators such as US shale drillers to trim costs or go bust, in a stark message that triggered fresh pressure on crude prices.
沙特阿拉伯排除了主要产油国协议削减石油产量的可能性，并警告称，美国页岩钻探企业等高成本作业方需要降低成本，否则将面临倒闭。这一生硬信息给原油价格带来新的压力。
Saudi oil minister Ali al-Naimi said a lack of trust between the world’s biggest producers meant a cut in production “is not going to happen”. He said the kingdom would instead push for a co-ordinated production freeze to help balance a market swamped with an excess of crude which has taken oil prices to their lowest level in more than a decade.
沙特石油部长阿里纳伊米(Ali al-Naimi)表示，全球各大产油国之间缺乏信任意味着，减产“将不会发生”。他说，沙特将转而推动协调的产量冻结，以帮助平衡石油市场；目前市场充斥着过剩原油，使油价跌至10多年来最低水平。
“There is less trust than normal,” Mr Naimi told energy executives in Houston. “Not many countries are going to deliver. Even if they say they will cut production, they will not deliver.”
“目前大家的信任少于正常水平，”纳伊米在休斯敦对能源高管们表示。“没有几个国家会兑现诺言。即使他们说他们将减产，他们也不会做到。”
Internationally traded Brent crude dropped $1.33 a barrel to $33.35 after Mr Naimi’s remarks yesterday, while the US marker slid $1.54 a barrel to $31.85.
纳伊米昨日发表此言后，国际油价基准布伦特(Brent)原油下跌1.33美元，至每桶33.35美元，而美国基准下跌1.54美元，至每桶31.85美元。
The minister was speaking at an annual conference of US energy industry leaders and companies whose prolific exploitation of shale deposits helped topple oil prices, wreaking havoc on the economies of oil-rich countries.
沙特石油部长是在美国能源业领导者和公司的年度会议上发表讲话的。美国企业竞相开发页岩储量的行为，近年推动油价下滑，给产油国的经济带来严重破坏。
Mr Naimi denied Saudi Arabia was waging a war with US shale producers. But he said cutting volumes would only provide economic support for expensive oil, such as output from the US or the oil sands of Canada. “The producers of these high-cost barrels must find a way to lower their costs, borrow cash or liquidate,” he said. “It sounds harsh, and unfortunately it is, but it is a more efficient way to rebalance markets. Cutting low-cost production [such as Saudi Arabia’s] to subsidise higher-cost supplies only delays an inevitable reckoning.”
纳伊米否认沙特挑起与美国页岩生产商之间的战争。但他表示，减产将只会为昂贵石油（比如来自美国页岩或加拿大油砂的产出）提供经济支持。“这些高成本生产商必须设法降低成本，借入现金，或者清盘，”他表示。“这听起来很无情，而且不幸的是确实如此，但它是推动市场达到再平衡的效率较高的方式。削减低成本产量（如沙特的产出）来补贴成本较高的供应，只会延迟必然的清算。”
Mr Naimi’s remarks come a week after Saudi Arabia joined Russia, Qatar and Venezuela in a provisional output “freeze” if other large producers also agree. The announcement raised hopes of action that would curb an oversupply of more than 1m barrels a day.
纳伊米发表此言的一周前，沙特与俄罗斯、卡塔尔和委内瑞拉达成临时性的产量“冻结”——如果其他大型产油国配合的话。当时这一消息的宣布令人产生期望：产油国将采取行动，减少目前每日超过100万桶的过剩供应。
Mr Naimi called the freeze the “beginning of a process” and said he sought to meet again with other big producers in March in hopes that they would join.
纳伊米形容冻结产量是“一个过程的开端”，并说，他寻求在3月与其他大型产油国再次会晤，希望他们加入冻结产量的行列。
