Saudi Arabia is raising production and pressing ahead with a global expansion plan for its state oil company ahead of what could be the world’s largest ever stock market listing.
沙特阿拉伯正在提高石油产量，并加紧推进其国有石油企业的全球扩张计划，为可能是全球史上规模最大的股票上市做准备。
In some of the first comments on -Riyadh’s oil policy since a government reshuffle at the weekend, Amin Nasser, Saudi Aramco chief executive, emphasised the company’s willingness to compete with rivals, putting on notice rival oil producers from regional adversary Iran to the US shale sector.
自上周末沙特政府改组后，沙特阿拉伯国家石油公司（Saudi Aramco，简称沙特阿美）首席执行官阿明•纳赛尔(Amin Nasser)对本国政府的石油政策首次作出评论，他强调该公司愿意与对手竞争，此言向所有产油对手发出警告，包括地区竞争对手伊朗及美国页岩产业。
“Whatever the call on Saudi Aramco, we will meet it,” he said during a rare media visit to the group’s headquarters in Dhahran. “There will always be a need for additional production. Production will increase in 2016.”
阿明•纳赛尔在达兰(Dhahran)沙特阿美总部对该公司罕见安排来访的媒体表示：“无论沙特阿美面对什么样的号召，我们都会去响应。总是会有额外产量的需要。2016年产量将会增加。”
The industry is watching for any shifts in Saudi policy or crude output after the kingdom on Sunday replaced Alial-Naimi, the veteran oil minster, after more than two decades in office. Mohammed bin Salman, deputy crown prince, has hinted that Riyadh could easily accelerate output to more than 11m barrels a day as Iran tries to attract customers after years of sanctions.
上周日沙特换下了任职逾20年的元老级石油部长阿里•纳伊米(Ali al-Naimi)，业内人士正在观察沙特政策或原油产量会发生何种变化。副王储穆罕默德•本•萨勒曼(Mohammed bin Salman)已经暗示，在多年制裁被解除的伊朗试图吸引客户之际，沙特可以轻松地将产出增至每日逾1100万桶。
Saudi Aramco, which pumps more than one in every eight barrels of crude globally, is at the centre of a reform programme being pushed by Prince Mohammed, who has emerged as the man holding the levers of power in Saudi Arabia. He believes a planned -initial public offering of less than 5 per cent of the company could value Saudi Aramco at more than $2tn.
全球每8桶原油就有一桶以上产自沙特阿美，该公司是穆罕默德正在推动的改革计划的核心。穆罕默德已经掌握了沙特阿拉伯的实权，他认为将沙特阿美不到5%的股份按计划首次公开发行(IPO)后，该公司估值可超过2万亿美元。
The reform plan — Vision 2030 — aims to end the country’s dependence on oil within 15 years, leveraging the assets of the state oil company to fund wide-ranging investments to diversify its economy.
题为《愿景2030》(Vision 2030)的改革计划旨在15年内结束沙特对石油的依赖，充分利用这家国有石油公司的资产以资助广泛投资，实现经济多元化。
Saudi Arabia’s new oil minister Khalid al-Falih, former chief executive and -current chairman of Aramco, spoke of “stability” in the kingdom’s oil policy on his first day in the job, but he also indicated a willingness use the country’s “maximum sustainable capacity” to meet customer demand.
沙特阿拉伯新任石油部长哈立德•法立赫(Khalid al-Falih)上任第一天即表示，沙特石油政策维持“稳定”，但他也表明愿意利用该国“最大可持续产能”满足客户需求。哈立德•法立赫曾任沙特阿美首席执行官，现为该公司董事长。
Last year Saudi Arabia’s crude output averaged 10.2m b/d, Mr Nasser said, the highest annual level on record. Any increase in 2016 could supplant high-cost output in other parts of the world, which has started to decline after almost two years of falling prices.
沙特阿美现任首席执行官纳赛尔表示，去年沙特阿拉伯日均原油产量为1020万桶，为有记录以来最高年度水平。2016年沙特如果增产，就会挤压其他地区的高成本生产；经过近两年的油价下跌，其他地区产量已开始下降。 
