Saudi Arabia has struck a landmark deal with Russia to freeze oil output, in the first co-ordinated move to try to reduce a near record supply glut and halt the collapse in prices.
沙特阿拉伯与俄罗斯签署了具有里程碑意义的冻结石油产量的协议，这是双方首次合作以努力减少接近创纪录的供应过剩，遏止油价暴跌。
After watching oil prices fall 70 per cent since mid-2014, Ali al-Naimi, Saudi Arabia’s powerful oil minister, said an output freeze by some of the world’s leading producers should start to stabilise the market.
在目睹油价自2014年中期以来下跌70%之后，沙特阿拉伯石油部长阿里纳伊米(Ali Al-Naimi)表示，全球一些主要产油国冻结产量应当开始稳定市场。
Yesterday’s deal, which requires other big producers to agree to cap output, was reached at a closed-door meeting in Doha with Opec members Qatar and Venezuela also in attendance.
昨日的协议是在多哈的一场闭门会议上达成的，欧佩克(OPEC)成员国卡塔尔和委内瑞拉也参加了此次会议。协议要求其他大型产油国同意设置产量上限。
The deal between Saudi Arabia and Russia comes against a backdrop of strained political relations between the parties. Tensions remain high over the civil war in Syria, with Moscow and Tehran propping up the regime of Bashar al-Assad, while Riyadh backs opposition forces.
沙特与俄罗斯是在双方政治关系紧张的背景下签署上述协议的。围绕叙利亚内战的局势依然高度紧张，莫斯科和德黑兰支持叙利亚的巴沙尔阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)政权，而利雅得支持反对派力量。
While the speed of the deal between the Opec powerbroker and Russia, the world’s biggest producer, surprised the market, traders remained sceptical that the provisional agreement would gain wider acceptance. Opec member Iran is seen as the biggest stumbling block.
尽管欧佩克权力掮客沙特与全球最大产油国俄罗斯迅速敲定协议让市场感到意外，但交易员们仍怀疑这份临时协议能否获得更广泛的接受。人们认为，欧佩克成员国伊朗是最大的绊脚石。
In a bid to bring the most reluctant Opec members on board, Eulogio del Pino, Venezuelan oil minister, who has led the diplomatic push for a deal, will travel to Tehran today to meet officials from Iran and Iraq.
为了争取最不情愿冻结产量的几个欧佩克成员国配合，委内瑞拉石油部长欧洛希奥德尔皮诺(Eulogio del Pino)将于今日前往德黑兰与伊朗和伊拉克官员会晤。他引领了达成协议的外交努力。
Bijan Zangeneh, Iran’s oil minister, said the country would not give up its share of the market, according to Iranian news agency Shana. The country has only just started raising exports after the lifting of sanctions last month.
伊朗新闻机构Shana报道称，伊朗石油部长比詹帠格兰多(Bijan Zangeneh)表示，该国将不会放弃其市场份额。在上月被取消制裁之后，伊朗只是刚刚开始增加出口。
News of the meeting between Saudi and Russian officials caused oil prices to spike as much as 6 per cent but the formal announcement resulted in a sharp reversal as traders calculated it mght not remove a significant number of barrels from the market. Brent crude, the global benchmark, had fallen 3 per cent to $32.39 a barrel late in the day, marking a near 10 per cent intraday swing.
沙特和俄罗斯官员会晤的消息导致油价一度飙升6%，但随后正式发布的声明导致油价急剧回落，因为交易员们认为该协议不会让市场显著减少石油供应。全球基准原油布伦特原油到格林尼治标准时间周二18点54分时下跌4%，至每桶32.06美元，使日内波动幅度达到10%。
