Saudi Arabia has unveiled spending cuts in its 2016 budget, subsidy reforms and privatisations to rein in a yawning deficit caused by the prolonged period of low oil prices.
沙特阿拉伯宣布将在2016年预算案中削减支出，对改革和私有化进行补贴，以遏制长期低油价导致的日渐增大的赤字。
The Gulf kingdom has kept oil production at high levels in an attempt to force out higher-cost producers, such as shale groups, and retain its market share. But this year’s deficit ballooned to Sr367bn ($97.9bn) — 15 per cent of gross domestic product — as oil revenues fell 23 per cent to Sr444.5bn.
这个海湾国家一直维持较高水平的石油产量，试图排挤页岩油集团等成本更高的生产商，以维护自身的市场份额。但今年该国来自石油的财政收入下降23%至4445亿沙特里亚尔，其赤字激增至3670亿沙特里亚尔（合979亿美元），相当于国内生产总值(GDP)的15%。
Seeking to ward off future fiscal crises, the ministry of finance yesterday confirmed wide-ranging reforms, including plans to “privatise a range of sectors and economic activities”.
为了防范未来可能出现的财政危机，沙特财政部昨日确认了广泛改革，包括“私有化一系列行业和经济活动”的计划。
Riyadh would revise energy, water and electricity prices “gradually over the next five years” to optimise efficiency while minimising “negative effects on low and mid-income citizens and the competitiveness of the business sector”, it added.
沙特财政部补充称，政府将“在今后5年逐渐”修改能源、水和电力价格，以优化效率，并将最大限度减少这些改革“对中低收入公民和商业部门竞争力的负面影响”。
The first reforms will be effective from today, including a rise in petrol prices. There will also be an increase in electricity tariffs for the wealthiest consumers, a modest increase in water costs for all and changes to energy prices for industrial users.
第一批改革将从今日起生效，包括提高汽油价格。此外，该国还将对最富裕的消费者提高电价，对所有用户小幅提高水价，并调整工业用户的能源价格。
The success or failure of the reforms will help define the legacy of King Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud and his influential son, deputy crown prince Mohammed bin Salman, who is overseeing the programme.
这些改革的成败将在一定程度上定义沙特国王萨勒曼本阿卜杜勒-阿齐兹阿勒沙特(Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud)和他的儿子、具有影响力的沙特副王储穆罕默德本萨勒曼阿勒沙特(Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud)的政治遗产，后者负责领导改革方案。
The kingdom’s austerity and reform programme, a reaction to the past decade of profligate spending, has raised alarm within the business community, already reeling from cuts that triggered delays in government payments.
沙特的紧缩和改革方案是对过去10年挥霍支出的反应，该方案在商界拉响了警报。引发政府延迟支付的支出削减已经让商界感到震惊。
Radical reforms to the social contract between citizens and the al-Saud family also threaten discord at a time when Islamist extremist groups are a danger.
在伊斯兰极端主义集团构成威胁之时，对沙特公民和沙特王室之间的社会契约进行大幅度改革还可能引发纷争。
Real gross domestic product this year is expected to rise 3.35 per cent, with the private sector growing at 3.74 per cent.
今年沙特的实际GDP预计将增长3.35%，私营部门将增长3.74%。
“We see real GDP growth decelerating sharply in 2016, albeit remaining positive,” said Monica Malik, chief economist with Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank. “Non-oil GDP is forecast to moderate, with the lower government spending feeding into the wider economy.”
“我们预计实际GDP增长将在2016年大幅减速，尽管依然会是正数，”阿布扎比商业银行(Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank)首席经济学家莫妮卡氠利克(Monica Malik)表示，“随着注入整体经济的政府支出减少，预计非石油GDP将放缓。”
The government’s austerity measures have been accompanied by spending on the Saudi-led war in Yemen and Sr88bn in bonus payments for civil servants when King Salman ascended the throne in January.
在推出紧缩措施的同时，政府为该国领头在也门发起的战争安排了支出，并在1月国王萨勒曼继位时向公务员支付了880亿沙特里亚尔的奖金。
