HONG KONG — Chinese stocks dropped steeply on Thursday, days after the ouster of the country’s top securities regulator and just ahead of Group of 20 meetings in Shanghai. The drop reversed some of the gains made since the Lunar New Year holiday this month.
香港——中国证券行业最高监管者下台刚几天、20国集团会议即将在上海召开之际，中国股市周四暴跌。此次大跌逆转了本月农历新年假期过后股市的一部分涨幅。
The Shanghai composite index plunged 6.4 percent after having edged up throughout February. The Shenzhen composite slid 7.3 percent. The ChiNext index of smaller companies also took a battering, closing 7.6 percent lower.
上海综合指数在经历了整个二月份的小幅度缓慢持续上涨之后，当日以下跌6.4％收盘。深综指下跌了7.3％。小公司的创业板指数也受到重创，以7.6％的跌幅收盘。
The sharp sell-off comes at an awkward time, less than a week after China’s leadership, which has been battling to rally confidence in its ability to manage the economy, replaced Xiao Gang, the head of the China Securities Regulatory Commission.
股市大幅下跌的时间颇为尴尬，不到一周前，一直在努力增强人们对其管理经济能力的信心的中国领导层，换下了证券监督管理委员会主席肖钢。
Mr. Xiao took a huge portion of the blame for amplifying the turbulence in China’s stock market, which kicked off last summer and reignited at the beginning of this year. Under his leadership, measures introduced to stem volatility and stabilize the markets ended up worsening a weeklong rout at the beginning of January that sent jitters around the world.
肖钢承担了放大中国股市动荡的大部分责备，股市动荡是去年夏天开始的，今年年初再次出现波动。肖钢领导下出台的旨在遏制波动、稳定股市的措施，反而让元旦之后一周里的暴跌更糟糕，引起世界各地股市的不安。
Mr. Xiao was replaced by Liu Shiyu, the former chairman of the Agricultural Bank of China and a former deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China. The high-profile move to force Mr. Xiao out appeared to be an attempt to buy time to limit the damage from the bungled management of the stock markets. But the sell-off on Thursday indicated that investors were still nervous.
接替肖钢的是原中国农业银行董事长、原中国人民银行副行长刘士余。高调撤换肖钢的做法，似乎是试图为控制笨手笨脚地管理股市所造成的损失争取时间。但周四的抛售表明投资者仍然不放心。
The rest of Asia was more mixed. The Nikkei 225-stock index in Japan closed 1.4 percent higher, while the Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong closed down 1.5 percent. Shares in South Korea and Australia inched up.
亚洲其他股票市场表现各异。日本的日经225指数以1.4％的涨幅收盘，而香港的恒生指数收盘时则下跌了1.5％。韩国和澳大利亚的股市微涨。
