A French police dog will be honored with the animal equivalent of the highest medal for valor "in the face of the enemy," according to an animal welfare group.
一家动物福利组织宣布，一只法国警犬将因它面对敌人时表现出的勇气，被授予动物界最高勋章。
Diesel, a 7-year-old Belgian Malinois, was shot multiple times during a raid following the deadly terrorist attacks in Paris in November. Five police officers were also injured in the raid, which targeted terror suspect Abdelhamid Abaaoud.
狄塞尔是一只7岁的比利时玛利诺犬，在11月巴黎致命恐怖袭击之后的一次突袭中身中数枪殉职，五名警官也在突袭中受伤。这次突袭行动的目标是恐怖袭击主要嫌疑人阿巴伍德。
The dog was sent into the apartment to make sure it was safe, according to the Britain-based People's Dispensary for Sick Animals (PDSA), which will present the posthumous Dickin Medal.
根据将授予狄塞尔死后“迪金勋章” 的英国人民兽医药房，狗被派进公寓以查看里面是否安全。
"Diesel is a truly deserving recipient. His gallant actions helped to protect human life in the face of imminent danger," PDSA Director General Jan McLoughlin said in a statement.
英国人民兽医药房总干事简·麦克洛夫林在一份声明中说，“狄塞尔是值得获得这个奖项的。在面对紧急危险时，它的英勇行为帮助保护了人类的生命安全。”
Diesel's handler said he heard "sporadic" gunfire coming from an apartment. When the shooting appeared to stop, the dog was sent in.
狄塞尔的管理员说，他听到了公寓内传来零星的枪声。当枪击似乎停止时，狗被送进去勘察。
"He did a tour of the first room, then he went into the second room and dashed forward. I think he'd found someone. Then I lost sight of him and the gunfire started again," said the handler. "His role was to open the way for the rest of us. He uses all his senses to detect if anyone is present and if he can get to them, to go and bite them. If not, he stands and barks to indicate where the person is hiding."
这位管理员说，“它在第一个房间转了一圈儿，然后走向第二个房间，并且开始向前冲。我以为它发现了谁。然后我就看不到他了，而且再次传来枪声。它的任务是为我们其他人开路。它用它所有的感官来检测是否有人存在，并且如果它能对付那些人，它就去咬那些人。如果不能，它就站在那里叫，表示有人躲了起来。”
According to Major RULP Jean-Marc Lenglet from the French National Police, the handler was “deeply affected” by Diesel's death.
法国国家警察的警长吉恩-马克·朗格莱表示，管理员对狄塞尔的死非常痛心。
"The PDSA Dickin Medal recognizes conspicuous devotion to duty in the theater of conflict and Diesel is a truly deserving recipient, said McLoughlin. "His gallant actions helped to protect human life in the face of imminent danger and we are very proud to honor him in this way."
麦克洛夫林说，“英国人民兽医药房的迪金勋章表彰了在战争中的赤胆忠心，狄塞尔毫无疑问当之无愧。在危险时刻，它的英勇行为帮助保护了人类的生命安全，我们很自豪的用这种方式授予它荣誉。
Diesel will be the 66th animal to receive the award.
狄塞尔将成为获得这个奖章的第66只动物。
