The 35-hour week is far from being the biggest obstacle to hiring in France’s dysfunctional labour market, but its symbolic importance is undeniable. Business leaders are adamant that the law on working hours reinforces crass Anglo-Saxon stereotypes of France abroad, making it harder for them to fight “le French-bashing”. At home, however, any move to scrap the 35-hour week ignites a political firestorm.
在法国运行不良的劳动力市场上，每周35小时工作制绝非企业招工的最大障碍，但是其重要的象征性意义是不可否认的。商界领袖坚持认为，这项规定工作时长的法律加深了海外对法国有着粗鲁的盎格鲁-撒克逊传统的刻板印象，害他们更难反驳各种黑法国的言论。然而，在法国国内，任何试图取消35小时工作制的举动都会激起一场政治风暴。
The agreement set to be reached this week by the state-owned utility EDF — whose staff have long enjoyed some of the most generous terms and conditions of any French workers — therefore represents a breakthrough.
因此，法国电力(EDF)有望在本周达成的协议将是一种突破，这家国有公用事业集团的员工长期以来享受着全法国工人中某些最慷慨有利的劳动条款和条件。
The changes may appear modest. EDF’s white-collar staff will be able to cede some of their astonishing 10-week holiday allowance in return for a pay rise; but the deal is optional, reversible and will not apply to blue-collar employees. Its real significance, however, lies in the precedent it sets for employers and unions to agree substantive reforms at company level.
变化或许看似不大。法国电力的白领员工将可放弃一部分他们每年长达10周的假期福利，来换取加薪；但是这种交换是可选择、可撤销的，而且不适用于蓝领员工。然而，此举的真正意义是开创雇主和工会在公司层面就展开实质性的改革协商一致的先例。
This is important, because it is becoming clear that employers cannot look to the government to solve their problems. A radical shake-up of the labour market would be desirable — and consistent with president Fran Hollande’s rhetorical declaration of an “economic state of emergency” — but it is not realistic at this point in the political cycle. Tearing up the 35-hour week, which even Nicolas Sarkozy failed to do, would be divisive for the Socialist party, at a time when its priority is rebuilding bridges with disaffected factions on the left of the party.
这很重要，因为情况已经越来越明显了，企业无法指望政府为它们解决问题。在劳动力市场展开根本改革是众望所归，也符合法国总统弗朗索瓦攠朗德(Fran Hollande)宣称的“经济紧急状态”的需要。但是，在政治周期的眼下阶段，改革是不现实的。打破35小时工作制——就连尼古拉萨科齐(Nicolas Sarkozy)也未能实现的任务——会分裂社会党(Socialists)，而当前社会党的重中之重是与党内不满的左翼派系重修于好。
Instead, the government has confirmed that it will not scrap the requirement to pay overtime rates on any work done above the 35-hour limit. It has also made it clear that labour market reforms to be unveiled next month will not touch the minimum wage or the inflexible contracts that discourage permanent hiring. Yet again, incremental reforms will be the order of the day. What the government may attempt, however, is a shake-up of labour relations, aiming to foster a culture of negotiation and facilitate agreements at company level.
相反，法国政府已经证实，不会取消要求企业对35小时之外的工作支付加班费的规定。它还明确表示，下个月将公布的劳动力市场改革不会触及最低工资标准或阻碍企业雇用正式员工的非弹性合同。又一次，渐进改革才是当务之急。然而，法国政府可以尝试改革劳资关系，目标是培育一种谈判文化、促成公司层面的协议。
In the long run, this could be even more important than rewriting legislation. In reality, the 35-hour week is less strictly observed than its symbolisms would suggest. Working hours are not far below the EU average. The law is not an absolute limit; it simply sets a point at which employees can start to claim overtime of at least 10 per cent. Employers are free to negotiate working hours, overtime rates and any extra holiday allowances with unions and with their own employees.
从长远来看，这一点可能比修改法律更重要。其实，35小时工作制的现实意义要小于其象征意义，它并没有得到十分严格的执行。法国的工作时长并没有远远低于欧盟平均水平。这项法律并非绝对限制；它只是设置了一个员工可以开始索要110%加班费的起点。雇主可以与员工和工会自由协商工作时长、加班费和任何额外的休假福利。
The problem is that labour relations in France are so poisonous that they rarely do. Employers often default to a much higher 25 per cent rate of pay for extra hours, because they fear they will be hauled through the courts if they attempt to bargain it down. Even when a deal is reached at company level, it is sometimes overruled by unions at regional level. Daimler struggled to agree an extension of the 35-hour working week at a factory in Lorraine, even though most of the employees themselves had backed it.
问题是，法国的劳资关系非常糟糕，以至企业很少这样做。雇主往往默认为额外工作支付125%的加班费，因为他们担心如果讨价还价可能会被诉诸公堂。即使在公司层面达成了协议，有时也会在地区层面上被工会否决。比如戴姆勒(Daimler)就难以就洛林(Lorraine)一家工厂延长35小时工作制达成一致，尽管大多数员工都支持该协议。
EDF is not the first major French employer to find a way through this minefield; but it is one of the most prominent. Its agreement could give executives and unions elsewhere the confidence to negotiate.
法国电力并非第一家寻找穿越这片雷区的路径的法国大型企业，但是它是最著名的一家。它所达成的协议或将为其他的高管层和工会带来展开协商的信心。
It will also be a useful test of employees’ preferences. French politicians on the left claim the 35-hour week protects workers; those on the right claim people should have the freedom to earn more if they choose. It will be interesting to see how EDF’s desk workers respond when given a choice.
它还可以检验员工偏好。法国左翼政客宣称35小时工作制能保护工人；而右翼政客声称，人们应该有选择赚更多钱的自由。看看法国电力的白领们在面临选择时会做什么反应，想必是件有趣的事。
