Bored at work? Try suing your employer.
工作感到无聊？那就起诉你老板吧。
That's what Parisian Frederic Desnard is doing. He has taken his former employer Interparfums to court because his job was too boring.
巴黎的弗莱德里克·登纳德就这么干了。他将自己的前东家“英特香水”告上了法庭，原因是他在那儿的工作太无聊。
He is demanding 360,000 euros in damages for the distress.
他为此向该公司索赔36万欧元（约合268万元人民币）精神补偿。
Desnard, 44, worked for the company between 2010 and 2014. He claims his dull job, from which he was made laid off 18 months ago, caused him to suffer a “bore out” that led to serious emotional and health issues.
登纳德现年44岁，2010至2014年在英特香水工作，18个月前遭裁员解职。他表示，自己当时的工作很无趣，导致他饱受“无聊至极”的煎熬，并因此引发严重的身心健康问题。
“He suffered from a critical depression and had a traffic accident linked to an epileptic seizure…he fell into a coma and was on a sick leave,” said Montasser Charni, Desnard's lawyer.
其代理律师蒙塔瑟·沙尼称：“他那时严重抑郁，导致癫痫发作，并引发了一场交通事故……他昏迷不醒，不得不请病假。”
Desnard was paid 3,500 euros per month, for doing — he said — nothing.
登纳德每个月能领到3500欧元薪水，但他说，他其实什么工作都没做。
His official job title was “general service director,” but he claims his superiors called him “the boy” and asked him to do their personal chores, including picking up kids from sports lessons.
他当时的职位是“综合服务主任”，但据他自己说，他的上级称他为“那小子”，给他分配的工作都是他们的私人杂务，比如去接他们上体育辅导班的孩子。
He said that eventually there was so little for him to do that his bosses simply told him to go home and come back when they call him. The phone call never came, he claimed.
他表示，最终再没什么可让他做的了，于是领导干脆让他回家等着，说有事儿会叫他。但他说，他的电话再也没响起过。
Desnard's lawyer said “bore-out” is a form of harassment.
登纳德的律师称，让人“无聊透顶”也是一种侵害。
“It can be defined as a moral exhaustion due to the total lack of caseload, (and) it comes with a feeling of shame of being paid to do nothing,” Charni said.
The company disputes Desnard's claims. “We refute all these charges,” said Cyril Levy-Pey, the company's communication director. He said Desnard was never called “the boy” or any other humiliating names.
该公司否认了登纳德的指控。公司公关主管西里尔·莱维佩表示：“这些指控都是不存在的。”他表示，并没有人称登纳德为“那小子”或其他什么羞辱性的名字。
“He wasn't so motivated after several years and despite our attempts to give him more missions, he was missing (for) more than six months…That's why he was dismissed in 2014,” he said.
The case is now being considered by a labor tribunal in Paris, with the decision expected in late July.
该案目前正在巴黎一所劳资仲裁处接受仲裁，预计结果会于7月末公布。
