Former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic has been found guilty of genocide and crimes against humanity during the Bosnian conflict and sentenced to 40 years in jail, in Europe’s biggest war crimes judgment since the second world war.
 波黑塞族前领导人拉多万•卡拉季奇(Radovan Karadzic)被判犯有种族灭绝罪和反人类罪，判处40年监禁。这是自二战以来欧洲最严厉的战争罪判决结果。
 Karadzic was convicted of genocide in the massacre of 8,000 Muslim men and boys in Srebrenica in 1995 — the worst atrocity on European soil since 1945 — and playing a key role in the 44-month siege that brought terror to the Bosnian capital, Sarajevo.
 法庭认定，卡拉季奇在1995年在斯雷布雷尼察市(Srebrenica)杀害8000名穆斯林男子和男孩的事件中犯有种族灭绝罪——那是1945年以来在欧洲土地上发生的最大规模屠杀——并在长达44个月对波斯尼亚首府萨拉热窝的围困中扮演了关键角色；那场围困使萨拉热窝陷入恐惧。
 The verdict at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia will be seen as finally bringing justice, more than two decades later, for Croatian and Muslim victims of the three-and-a-half year Bosnian war.
 前南斯拉夫问题国际刑事法庭(International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia)的这次判决，将被视为在持续3年半的波斯尼亚战争结束20多年后为克罗地亚和穆斯林受害者伸张了正义。
 The conflict killed more than 100,000 people and drove more than 2m from their homes, bringing mass murder, rape and “ethnic cleansing” back to the heart of Europe.
 那场冲突夺取了逾10万人的生命，让逾200万人无家可归，把大屠杀、强奸和“种族清洗”带回了欧洲心脏地区。
 As well as the genocide charge, the former Bosnian Serb president was convicted of nine counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity, including extermination, murder, deportation and terror. He was acquitted of a second charge of genocide in several Bosnian towns in 1992.
 除了种族灭绝罪，这位前波黑塞尔维亚共和国总统还被判犯有9项战争罪和反人类罪，包括灭绝罪、谋杀罪、驱逐罪和恐怖罪。对于1992年在几个波斯尼亚城镇犯下的第二宗种族灭绝罪指控，他被判无罪。
 The judgment will strengthen the claim of the UN tribunal in The Hague — initially criticised for a slow start — to have successfully carried out the mandate it was given 23 years ago. The tribunal was the first such court to be convened since the postwar Nuremberg trials.
 此次宣判将强化这个位于海牙的联合国法庭的说法，即它成功地履行了在23年前获得的授权。最初该法庭曾被批评行动缓慢。该法庭是二战后纽伦堡审判(Nuremberg trial)以来成立的第一个此类法庭。
 Zeid Ra’ad al-Hussein, UN commissioner for human rights, said the verdict “should give pause to leaders across Europe and elsewhere who seek to exploit nationalist sentiments and scapegoat minorities”.
 联合国人权事务高级专员扎伊德•拉阿德•侯赛因(Zeid Ra’ad al-Hussein)表示，这一判决“应会让欧洲乃至世界其他地区寻求利用民族主义情绪、把少数族裔当做替罪羊的领导人感到踌躇”。
 Karadzic is the most senior leader to face judgment at the ICTY, after a trial that lasted five years and called 586 witnesses. Former Yugoslav president Slobodan Milosevic, who was accused of fomenting the conflicts, died of a heart attack in his cell in 2006 before his trial could be concluded.
 卡拉季奇是在前南斯拉夫问题国际刑事法庭受到审判的最高级别领导人，对他的审判延续了5年、传唤了586名证人。前南斯拉夫总统斯洛博丹•米洛舍维奇(Slobodan Milosevic)被指控煽动冲突，他在审判结束之前，于2006年因心脏病发作死于牢房。
