China’s HNA Group is in talks to buy a 49.99 per cent stake in Air France’s Servair in a deal that would give the French carrier’s air services company an enterprise value of 475m.
中国海航集团(HNA Group)正就购入法国航空(Air France)子公司Servair 49.99%股权展开谈判，这笔交易将令法航旗下这家航空服务公司的企业价值达到4.75亿欧元。
The move, first reported by the FT, aims to create what is expected to be the world’s biggest airline catering company by revenues, combining Servair with Gategroup, for which HNA Group made a tender offer last month.
英国《金融时报》首次报道了这笔交易，此举旨在缔造全球营收最高的航空餐饮公司，将把Servair与海航上月发出收购要约的Gategroup合并。
It also highlights the aggressive expansion of HNA, which is based in China’s tropical island province of Hainan, as it seeks to become an international force.
这还突显出海航的大举扩张，总部设在中国热带岛屿海南省的该集团希望成为一家国际企业。
The group, which owns two airlines and holds controlling stakes in 10 listed companies, has struck on average nearly one deal a month over the past 12 months. It was also a bidder on London City airport earlier this year but lost out to Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan.
过去12个月，海航几乎平均每个月达成一笔交易，该集团拥有两家航空公司并持有10家上市公司的控股权。今年早些时候，海航还曾竞购伦敦城市机场(London City Airport)，但最终不敌安大略省教师退休金计划(Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan)。
Servair, which provides cleaning and catering to the aviation industry, employs 10,000 people and last year had sales of 792m.
Servair为航空业提供清洁和配餐服务，拥有员工1万人，去年的销售额为7.92亿欧元。
Air France said in a statement on Monday that the talks had sprung from “wishes to provide Servair with the resources to ensure its growth and maintain the highest standards”.
法国航空周一在一份声明中表示，谈判的初衷是“希望为Servair提供资源，确保其增长并保持最高标准”。
Servair has remained on the sidelines of consolidation in airline catering in recent years, missing out on opportunities to grow in an industry that increasingly relies on scale to compete.
最近几年，Servair一直没有参与航空餐饮领域的整合浪潮，失去了在这个越来越依赖规模竞争的行业壮大的机会。
It is understood that a deal, which is dependent on HNA’s successful acquisition of Gategroup, would see the Chinese company take operational control of Servair.
据悉，这笔交易取决于海航成功收购Gategroup，若成功完成，将令这家中国企业接手对Servair的运营控制。
In a second stage, Air France would sell a further 30 per cent of the company to HNA two years after selling the initial 49.99 per cent stake. Air France expects to sign a deal by the end of the summer.
首先，法国航空将向海航出售Servair 49.99%股权，在两年后的第二阶段，法航将进一步出售30%股权。法国航空预计将于夏季结束前签约。
Air France said in the statement that combining Servair with Gategroup “would create an unprecedented offer” with more than 200 facilities and 39,000 employees.
法航在声明中表示，将Servair与Gategroup合并“将创建一个空前的机会”，合并后的公司将拥有200多处设施和3.9万名员工。
If successful, the acquisition would add to what has been a frenzied shopping spree by HNA.
如果交易成功，此次并购将为海航的收购热潮再添一笔。
