 LONDON — Gategroup Holding said on Monday that HNA Group of China had offered to buy the Swiss provider of catering and logistics services to airlines for 1.4 billion Swiss francs, or about $1.5 billion.
 伦敦——瑞士航空配餐及服务供应商Gategroup Holding周一表示，中国的海航集团提出以14亿瑞士法郎（约合95亿元人民币）的价格收购该公司。
 The transaction would expand HNA’s presence in the global aviation services industry.
 该交易将扩大海航集团在全球航空服务业中的实力。
 HNA, which is privately held and began as an airline in 1993, operates in a variety of industries, including aviation, infrastructure and real estate, financial services and tourism. HNA is the owner of Hainan Airlines. A shipping unit of HNA agreed to acquire technology distributor Ingram Micro for $6 billion in February.
 海航集团属于民营企业，1993年成立时是一家航空公司，如今在多个行业开展业务，包括航空、基础设施和房地产、金融服务及旅游业。海航集团是海南航空的母公司。今年2月，海航集团旗下的运输部门同意以60亿美元的价格收购技术分销商英迈(Ingram Micro)。
 Under the terms of the offer, HNA would pay 53 francs a share for Gategroup, representing a 20 percent premium to its closing price on Friday. Shareholders would also receive a previously proposed dividend of .30 francs a share for the financial year ended Dec. 31.
 根据收购要约，海航集团收购Gategroup的价格是每股53瑞士法郎，较该公司上周五收盘价溢价20%。股东还将获得之前提出的分红每股0.30瑞士法郎，这是12月31日截止的财政年度的分红。
 “The offer reflects the fair and adequate value and quality built by Gategroup,” Andreas Schmid, the Gategroup chairman, said in a news release. “It makes strategic sense that our company will become part of HNA, one of the leading providers of airport and aviation services worldwide.”
 “这个收购要约公平而充分地体现了Gategroup打造的价值和质量，”该公司董事长安德烈亚斯·施密德(Andreas Schmid)在一份新闻稿中说。“我们的公司将成为海航集团的一部分，这具有战略意义。海航集团是全球机场和航空服务业中一个领军的供应商。”
 Gategroup’s board of directors unanimously recommended that shareholders accept the HNA offer.
 Gategroup的董事会一致建议股东接受海航集团的收购要约。
 The offer is contingent on shareholders’ agreeing to sell at least 67 percent of the company’s shares, as well as on regulator approval.
 这宗交易能否达成，取决于股东是否同意出售该公司股份的至少67%，以及监管部门是否批准。
 Should the deal be completed, HNA intends to delist Gategroup’s shares from the SIX Swiss Exchange in Zurich and operate it as a portfolio company within HNA.
 从海航集团的意向来看，交易完成之后，Gategroup将从苏黎世的瑞士证券交易所(SIX Swiss Exchange)退市，作为海航集团旗下的一家公司经营。
 Gategroup would remain independently managed and would retain its headquarters in Zurich, the company said.
 Gategroup表示，该公司将保持独立运作，并将保留其位于苏黎世的总部。
 Credit Suisse and the law firm Homburger advised Gategroup, while UBS and the law firm Bär & Karrer advised HNA.
 此次交易中，瑞士信贷(Credit Suisse)和Homburger律所代表Gategroup，瑞银(UBS)和Bär & Karrer律所代表海航集团。
