More than 90 people are missing after a landslide inundated an industrial zone in the prosperous southern city of Shenzhen on Sunday, the latest incident to raise questions about safety standards in China.
周日，在繁荣的华南城市深圳，一起山体滑坡引发的泥石流淹没了一个工业园区，导致逾90人失踪。这是引发人们对中国安全标准质疑的最新一起事故。
Factories, offices, dormitories and other low-rise buildings were buried or damaged by the mudflow, according to Xinhua, China’s state news agency. Hundreds of rescuers were scouring the site on Monday to clear the debris and look for survivors, although no deaths have yet been reported.
根据中国官方新闻机构新华社（Xinhua）的报道，泥石流埋葬或毁坏了多家工厂、办公室、宿舍及其他低矮建筑。周一，数以百计的营救人员正在仔细搜寻现场，以清理废墟并寻找幸存者——尽管目前还未报出有人死亡。
Although formal investigations have only just begun, the ministry for land and resources said that the debris originated from “a steep, man-made mountain of dirt, cement chunks and other construction waste”. 
虽然正式调查才刚刚开始，中国国土资源部已在其官方微博(Weibo)账户上表示，“人工堆土垮塌的地点属于余泥渣土受纳场，主要堆放渣土和建筑垃圾，由于堆积量大、堆积坡度过陡，导致失稳垮塌，造成多栋楼房倒塌”。
Just a fishing village until China started to open up in the late 1970s, Shenzhen has grown to become one of the country’s wealthiest cities, with a population of more than 10m and thriving manufacturing and technology industries.
在上世纪70年代末中国启动改革开放以前，深圳还只是一个小渔村。如今，深圳市已成为中国最富有的城市之一，不仅拥有逾1000万人口，还拥有繁荣的制造业和高科技产业。
But, just as elsewhere in China, there are concerns that breakneck expansion has come at the cost of lax regulation and low-quality development.
然而，和中国其他地方一样，有人担心过快的扩张是以管理上的松懈和低质量的发展为代价。
Human error and lack of oversight have been blamed for contributing to other deadly disasters in China this year including a chemical explosion that devastated the port city of Tianjin in August, a ferry that sank on the Yangtze river in June and a stampede at New Year’s celebrations in Shanghai.
人为失误和缺乏监管，一直被归结为导致今年其他几起致死灾难的原因。这些灾难包括今年8月摧毁港口城市天津的化学爆炸事故、今年6月的长江沉船事故以及上海新年庆典时的踩踏事故。
On Monday, Chinese state media published photographs of the Shenzhen incident site that showed multi-story buildings knocked over by an expansive sea of mud, as well as vehicles that had been swept away.
周一，中国官方媒体公布了深圳事故现场的照片，照片中显示大面积的泥石流之海冲垮了多个多层建筑，还有多个车辆也被泥石流冲走。
