 The Hong Kong government has threatened to take legal action against those advocating full separation from China, as it tries to deter growing support among young people for independence.
 香港政府警告称，将对主张香港从中国彻底独立出来的人采取法律行动。目前，香港政府正在努力遏制年轻人当中不断增强的支持独立的倾向。
 The government of the semi-autonomous Chinese territory said in a statement that Hong Kong was “an inalienable part” of China and that it would “take action according to the law” to uphold this position.
 中国这块半自治领土的政府在一份声明中称，香港特别行政区是中华人民共和国“不可分离的部分”，对于“港独”言行，“政府将依法处理”。
 “Any suggestion that Hong Kong should be independent or any movement to advocate such ‘independence’ is against the Basic Law [the territory’s mini constitution], and will undermine the stability and prosperity of Hong Kong and impair the interest of the general public,” it said.
 声明称：“‘港独’言行违反《基本法》、危害香港稳定繁荣、损害广大香港市民的利益。”
 The comments came after an activist said he wanted to launch an organisation called the Hong Kong National party, the latest in an expanding line-up of young campaigners calling for independence.
 香港政府是在一名活动人士称想成立一个名为“香港民族党”(Hong Kong National party)的组织后发布上述声明的。香港现在有越来越多的年轻活动人士呼吁独立，这个党派是最新的一例。
 Upset at the refusal of Beijing to grant Hong Kong democratic elections, thousands of activists occupied swaths of central Hong Kong during the Umbrella movement in 2014.
 2014年，由于对中央拒绝答应香港实行民主选举感到失望，数千名活动人士发动了“雨伞”运动，占领香港市中心多个地段。
 Tensions between the mainland and the former British colony have continued to escalate since then, with Beijing taking a tougher line towards Hong Kong and some democracy campaigners becoming more radical.
 此后，中国内地与这块前英国殖民地之间的紧张关系持续升级，北京方面对香港采取了更强硬的态度，香港一些民主活动人士也变得更为激进。
 A series of student union leaders have voiced their support for independence, previously a taboo, and a political activist who promotes the use of violence in defence of the rights of Hong Kongers won 15 per cent of the vote in a recent by-election.
 许多学生会领袖纷纷发声支持独立，而在以前，独立是一个禁忌词汇。在最近一次香港立法会补选中，一名支持使用暴力手段维护港人权益的政治活动人士赢得了15%的选票。
 Although these remain fringe views, Beijing has been taken aback by the speed and extent of the radicalisation.
 尽管这些仍属于非主流观点，但北京方面对香港激进思潮的发展速度和声势感到吃惊。
 “The attempt by a very few people in Hong Kong to set up a ‘Hong Kong independence’ organisation undermines national sovereignty and security, jeopardises Hong Kong’s prosperity and stability and risks the fundamental interests of Hong Kong,” said the Chinese government’s Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office.
 中国国务院港澳办表示：“香港极少数人成立‘港独’组织的行为危害国家的主权、安全，危害香港的繁荣稳定，危害香港的根本利益。”
 Albert Ho, a veteran pro-democracy lawmaker in Hong Kong, said young people were increasingly frustrated with the political deadlock in the city and saw calling for independence as one way to express this feeling.
 香港资深的亲民主立法会议员何俊仁(Albert Ho)表示，年轻人对香港的政治僵局越来越感到失望，他们把要求独立视作表达这种情绪的一种方式。
 Mr Ho, who is also a lawyer, said that under Hong Kong’s existing laws it was hard for the government to take action against people simply for expressing a view about the status of Hong Kong.
 何俊仁还是一名律师。他表示，根据香港现行法律，如果有人只是单纯发表对香港地位的看法，政府很难对其采取法律行动。
 Under the Basic Law, Hong Kong committed to enacting a law against secession and subversion but it dropped a previous attempt to do so after widespread opposition.
 根据《基本法》，香港有权立法禁止任何分裂国家和颠覆中央人民政府的行为，但在遭到普遍反对后，香港放弃了此前的立法尝试。
 The criminal ordinance on sedition, which originates from the colonial era, makes it an offence to “bring into hatred or contempt or to excite disaffection against” the government of Hong Kong.
 有关煽动叛乱的刑事条例（起源于殖民时代），把“引起憎恨、藐视”香港政府或者激起对香港政府“叛离”的行为列为犯罪行为。
 But Mr Ho said that under established legal principles in other common law jurisdictions, action would normally only be taken if there was an element of “inciting people to commit violence or civil disorder”.
 但何俊仁表示，依据其他普通法司法管辖地的现有法律原则，一般而言，只有涉及“煽动他人使用暴力或煽动民众骚乱”的行为才可被追究法律责任。
 The Hong Kong National party, which claimed that the government prevented it from registering as an official entity, said in a statement that “the Basic Law is a piece of evil law unauthorised by the citizens of Hong Kong, lacking any legitimacy”.
 香港民族党称，香港政府阻止该党注册成为一个正式的实体。该党在一份声明中表示：“基本法乃未经香港公民授权之恶法，于香港没有认受性。”
 It warned that any attempt to prosecute it would spark a backlash. “If the despot is unwise enough to actualise such absurdity, we are more than pleased to be the trigger of this crisis,” it said.
 香港民族党警告称，一旦控告该党将招致激烈反弹。“如独裁政权一意孤行，我党乐意成就此危机的出现。”
