Didi says it will be invested in products and new technology. But some experts say it will be needed to fuel its battle with US-based Uber for market share in China.
滴滴称，将利用这笔资金投资产品和新技术。但是一些专家称，这笔钱会被投入滴滴与总部位于美国的优步(Uber)争夺中国市场份额的竞争。
China’s car-hailing wars have seen both sides spend billions of dollars funding discounts for customers and subsidies to drivers.
在中国的打车服务之战中，双方均支出数十亿美元向顾客提供折扣，向司机提供补贴。
In March Didi’s chairman, Cheng Wei, told the website QQ Tech that the company had set aside $4bn raised since last year to spend on what he called “market fostering”. It was not clear how much of it had already been spent, though estimates based on a financial presentation made last year suggest Didi could have lost $1.4bn last year mainly on subsidies. Uber lost $1bn last year in China according to chief executive Travis Kalanick.
3月，滴滴的首席执行官程维告诉腾讯科技，该公司已经留出了自去年以来融资的40亿美元，用于他所谓的“市场培育”。这笔钱已经花费了多少不得而知，不过基于去年一份财务陈述的估计认为，滴滴去年可能亏损了14亿美元，主要用于补贴。优步首席执行官特拉维斯•卡兰尼克(Travis Kalanick)表示，优步去年在中国亏损了10亿美元。
Ge Jia, an influential tech blogger, says he believes Didi may be spending more on subsidies than it lets on – Didi is three or four times the size of Uber and drivers who work for both say the rate of subsidies is roughly the same. “Didi cannot afford to lower subsidies or that will just be surrendering its users to competitors.”
有影响力的科技博主葛甲称，他相信滴滴在补贴上的花费或许超出了准备——滴滴的规模是优步的三到四倍，为这两家公司工作的司机称，双方的补贴率差不多一样。“滴滴承受不起较低补贴，否则就会将自己的用户拱手让给竞争者。”
Didi will not disclose its financial losses but a spokeswoman said it was spending less on subsidies than Uber and was breaking even in more than half of the 400 cities it operates in. “Investors wouldn’t have shown such support had we not shown them a clear path towards profitability,” she said.
滴滴不会披露其财务亏损，但是一名发言人称，它在补贴上的花费少于优步，同时其运营的400个城市中超过半数实现了收支平衡。“如果我们没有给投资者呈现出一条明确的盈利路线的话，他们是不会表现出如此支持的，”她表示。
As for how Apple’s money will be spent, she added: “All investments are going to be focused in product and tech innovations as we see more and more cities pass the breakeven point.”
至于苹果的钱将如何花费，她补充称：“随着我们看到越来越多的城市实现收支平衡，所有投资将集中用于产品和科技创新。”
