This is all according to Anthony Senecal, 74, who has been master of Trump's 118-room Mediterranean-style Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida, for 30 years.
安东尼-塞内卡尔今年74岁，曾担任特朗普位于佛罗里达州棕榈滩的Mar-a-Largo度假村的男管家，长达30年。这座地中海式豪宅有118间房屋。
And over the years he has had a roster of exes who tried - and failed - to put their stamp on the place, including Marla Maples who 'really didn't belong here'.
这些年来，特朗普有不少前任都曾觊觎过这处房产，都未能如愿，其中就包括塞内卡尔口中“并不属于这里的”玛拉•马普勒斯。
It comprises a white and gold ballroom, a spa, six tennis courts, a pool, eight seaside cabanas, and a private beach.
度假村有一间白色和金色的舞厅、一个水疗中心、六个网球场、一个游泳池，八个海滨小屋、和一个私人海滩。
Ivanka Trump, the owner's daughter, ordered the gardeners off the grounds so that she could swim in the pool naked
特朗普的女儿曾经要求园丁们都离开，这样她就能在泳池裸泳了。
Over the years, the resort has played host to all kinds of wealthy, rich, famous, and powerful pass through the resort.
多年以来，这个度假村招待了来自各界的众多名流、富豪。
Hillary Clinton dropped by for Trump's 2005 wedding to his current wife Melania, he said, adding that Tony Bennett performed.
希拉里-克林顿就曾在2005年，特朗普和现任妻子梅拉尼娅的婚礼上现身，当时托尼-班奈特也演奏了一曲。
That year, Oprah Winfrey threw a party for Maya Angelou at the resort.
同年，奥普拉-温弗瑞在度假村为美国著名黑人诗人玛雅•安吉罗举办了一场晚会。
Having dropped his butler duties to become the resort's de facto historian.
塞内卡尔已经退休，不再担任管家，如今他是这座度假村的历史见证者。
Mr Trump's hair has, for decades, been a source of fascination to the American public.
特朗普的发型一直让美国公众“着迷”。
And Mr Senecal revealed that, despite the estate having a salon, the billionaire preferred to style his own hair.
塞内卡尔说，尽管特朗普在度假村拥有自己的私人发廊，但他还是喜欢自己打整头发。
The GOP frontrunner refuses to let anyone touch his hair, Senecal remarks.
塞内卡尔说，这位共和党初选领跑者拒绝任何人去碰他的头发。
Like Margaret Thatcher, General David Petraeus, Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer and Pepsi's Indra Nooyi, Mr Trump sleeps only for four hours a night, his butler said. Then he rises before dawn to read the newspapers before playing golf.
特朗普每晚只睡四小时，就像撒切尔夫人、彼得雷乌斯将军、雅虎CEO玛丽莎•梅耶尔、和百事可乐CEO卢英德那样。他天不亮就起床读报纸，之后打高尔夫。
The White House has had a light-sleeping incumbent before. George W Bush was famously in bed by 10pm, but Bill Clinton frequently survived on four or five hours sleep.
以前白宫爱睡觉的要算小布什了。他每晚10点前必睡。而克林顿当总统时每晚也是就睡四五个小时。
He likes his steaks well done.
特朗普喜欢熟牛排。
"It would rock on the plate, it was so well done," said Mr Senecal.
塞内卡尔说，他喜欢熟的“呲呲”作响的牛排。
Mr Trump, most mornings, will emerge after having read the papers – New York Times, New York Post, New York Daily News and Palm Beach newspapers – to play golf.
大多数的清晨，特朗普读报纸后会去打高尔夫。他经常读《纽约时报》、《纽约邮报》、《纽约每日新闻报》和棕榈滩当地的报纸。
When he wears a white cap, he is in a good mood. When he wears a red cap, he is in a bad mood.
当他戴着白色帽子，说明他心情很好，如果是红帽子，就恰好相反了。
Despite the Florida heat and his own fabulous pool, Mr Trump is not a keen swimmer. And, Mr Senecal said, he is not a sun worshipper—rarely appearing in swimming trunks.
尽管佛州炎热，而他的游泳池清爽无比，特朗普还是不爱游泳。塞内卡尔说，他也不喜欢晒太阳，很少穿泳裤。
Trump once claimed the tiles in Ivanka's room were made by a young Walt Disney, which is not true.
塞内卡尔还说起，特朗普有一次说女儿伊万卡房里的瓷砖是华特•迪士尼年轻的时候做的，这当然不是真的。
When Mr Senecal, who now serves as the house historian, points out it isn't true, Mr Trump will reply: “Who cares?”
如今，身为豪宅历史见证人的塞内卡尔有时会指出这不是真的，但特朗普会说：“谁会在意？”
Mr Trump is proud of his golf prowess.
特朗普对自己的高尔夫球技感到自豪。
"Tony, how far is that?" Mr Trump would ask.
特朗普会问：“托尼，我打了多远？”
"It's like 275 yards," Mr Senecal would respond, though he said the actual distance was 225 yards.
塞内卡尔会回答：“大概275码。”而他说实际距离只有225码。
Mr Trump would regularly stroll through his gardens, greeting the mainly Hispanic workers. And Mr Senecal said that he would frequently dish out $100 bills to the groundsmen who, unsurprisingly, were deeply appreciative.
特朗普会经常在花园散步，和园丁们打招呼，他们大多是西班牙裔。他经常给园丁发几百美元消费，他们也非常感激他。
And after the real estate mogul bought the estate in 1985, he turned the library, with centuries-old British oak bookcases filled with rare first editions, into a bar and hung a painting of himself, in tennis whites, on the wall.
1985年，当这位地产大亨买下这处房产的时候，他把图书馆改造成了酒吧并挂上了自己身穿白色网球衣的画像。图书馆里的橡木书架已经有几百年历史了，上面摆满了罕见的初版图书。
A series of 16th Century Flemish tapestries hung in the house when he bought it, which had been carefully protected by drapes. He soon blasted them into oblivion with sunlight, causing them to fade irreparably.
他购置房产时，里面有些16世纪的佛兰德挂毯，窗帘紧闭，小心保护着。他不久就将之置于阳光下，很快就毁掉了。
The sound of planes flying overhead drives him mad, leading him sue the nearby country-run airport and to yell repeatedly: "Tony, call the tower!"
头顶上飞机驶过的轰鸣让他烦恼，他还曾起诉附近的机场。经常喊：“托尼，给塔台打电话！”
He has also sued the town in a dispute over the size of his estate's flagpole; the size of the banquet hall he added to the property; and the size of the club.
他还曾因为旗杆的大小，他增加的宴会厅的大小、酒吧的大小和当地闹上法庭。
