Donald Trump vowed to unite the Republican party after his landslide victory in Indiana set the property mogul up to be its nominee and cleared the way for an intense fight against Hillary Clinton for the White House.
唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)在印第安纳州获得压倒性胜利后誓言要团结共和党。这场胜利确定了这位地产大亨成为共和党的提名者，为他与希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)角逐白宫扫清了道路。
But Mr Trump also sent a warning shot across the bows of the party establishment after recent comments from several high-profile Republicans that they could never support the tycoon. “Honestly, there are some people I really don’t want. I don’t think it is necessary. People will be voting for me, they’re not voting for the party,” he told NBC.
但特朗普也对共和党的体制内派系发出警告，此前数名共和党大佬表示永远不会支持这位大亨。特朗普对美国全国广播公司(NBC)表示：“老实说，有些人我真的不想要。我并不觉得有必要。人们会给我投票，而不是给党投票。”
Mrs Clinton, who is leading in national polls, appeared to relish the fight in prospect, pitching herself in a fundraising tweet as the “only one candidate left who can stop a Trump presidency”.
希拉里目前在全国民调中领先，她似乎对即将到来的激烈竞选跃跃欲试，她在Twitter上发表的一条筹款消息中自称“仅存的一名能阻止特朗普当上总统的候选人”。
“I don’t think we can take a risk on a loose cannon like Donald Trump running the country,” she told CNN.
她对美国有线新闻网(CNN)表示：“我不认为我们可以冒险让唐纳德•特朗普这样我行我素的人管理国家。”
She criticised the media for not asking Mr Trump enough tough questions in the campaign. “I think it’s time to get serious. The man is the presumptive nominee.”
她批评媒体在竞选期间没有向特朗普提出足够多的尖锐问题。“我认为是时候认真起来了。这个男人已经是假定被提名人了。”
Speaking the morning after Texas senator Ted Cruz quit the race, Mr Trump said he was “confident that I can unite much” of the Republican party. His coronation as GOP flag-bearer appeared complete as Ohio governor John Kasich prepared to become the last of his challengers to quit the campaign.
在德克萨斯州参议员特德•克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)宣布退出竞选后的次日上午，特朗普发表演说称，自己有信心能够团结共和党大多数。随着特朗普的最后一名挑战者——俄亥俄州州长约翰•卡西奇(John Kasich)退出竞选，特朗普“加冕”共和党旗手的征程已完成。
Mr Trump heads towards November’s election following a primary campaign in which a deep anti-establishment mood helped him emerge as the unlikely victor from a record field of 17 contenders.
特朗普将迎来11月份的大选，而在此前的初选中，深切的反体制情绪帮助他从创纪录的17名竞争者中不可思议地脱颖而出。
But analysts are split on whether the former host of The Apprentice, who has spent as much time lambasting his party as he has hitting at Mrs Clinton, can now rally a Republican establishment that has long believed that he was anathema to its values.
但是对于这位电视真人秀系列节目《学徒》(The Apprentice)前主持人——在抨击共和党方面所费精力不比指责希拉里少——能不能团结共和党的体制内派系，分析人士意见并不一致。共和党体制内人士长期将特朗普视为本党价值观的颠覆者。
