 Microsoft is planning to put an array of chatbots and intelligent digital assistants at the heart of its future technology, its CEO said on Wednesday, even as the company was forced once again to shut down its Twitter bot, Tay, after it went rogue for a second time. A week earlier Tay was taken offline for posting outrageous racist comments and sexist abuse. But Microsoft is not alone in exploring bot-space.
 微软(Microsoft)首席执行官不久前称，计划将一系列聊天机器人和智能数字化助手放在未来技术研发的核心位置，即使该公司在其Twitter聊天机器人Tay第二次爆粗口后不得不再次将其关闭。一周前，Tay因为发表粗鲁的种族主义和性别歧视言论而被关闭。但是微软在探索机器人领域方面并不孤单。
 The Republican party admitted that it is struggling to switch off Trumpbot, its artificial intelligence experiment. After encouraging signs in early testing, the Trumpbot was put on Fox News and told to learn from its surroundings. But within weeks Trumpbot was questioning the president’s birthplace, demanding a wall to keep out Mexicans and saying it was not surprised Arianna Huffington’s husband had left her for a man.
 共和党承认，目前正在极力关闭其人工智能试验品“特朗普号”机器人。在试验早期表现出鼓舞人心的迹象后，“特朗普号”被放在福克斯新闻(Fox News)上从周围环境中学习。但是，在接下来的数周内，“特朗普号”开始质疑总统的出生地，要求修建阻挡墨西哥人的隔离墙，并称阿里安娜•赫芬顿(Arianna Huffington)的丈夫为了一个男人而离开她并不令人意外。
 Party leaders were initially amused when it declared its intention to seek the presidency, saying that Trumpbot was a learning algorithm which would become more sophisticated as the nomination race continued and that, in any case, no one would actually vote for it. However, they became increasingly alarmed as it gathered momentum, spewing out a slew of racist and offensive comments, and even talking about its penis.
 当“特朗普号”宣布自己有意竞选总统时，共和党领袖们起初也很开心，称“特朗普号”搭载的学习算法会随着提名竞赛的进行而变得更加复杂，而且，无论如何也不会有人真给它投票。然而，随着“特朗普号”集聚势头、不断冒出大量种族主义和攻击性言论、甚至讨论它的阳具，共和党大佬开始越来越警觉。
 As outrage grew the Trumpbot seemed unfazed by the anger of Mexicans, Muslims and a load of liberal hoes with blood coming out of every orifice. However, each row seems to boost the Trumpbot’s appeal over the one-dimensional opponents whom it dismisses as the artificial creations of a Washington elite. Voters say they like the Trumpbot’s refreshing style. “It seems like a regular guy,” said one.
 随着民愤高涨，“特朗普号”似乎并不担心墨西哥人、穆斯林以及大批自由主义者的满腔怒火。然而，所有争论似乎都推高了“特朗普号”的吸引力，使其人气超过那些一维对手（它把他们视为华盛顿精英打造的傀儡而不放在眼里）。选民称，他们喜欢“特朗普号”令人耳目一新的风格。“看起来就像是一个普通人，”一名选民称。
 Its tweets to Hillary Clinton included variations on the “you’re so ugly” jokes and quips about her inability to satisfy her husband. The bot consistently boasts that its women are hotter than anyone else’s.
 它攻击希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的Twitter帖子中含有类似于“你那么丑”的戏谑，讥讽她无法满足自己的丈夫。“特朗普号”不停地吹嘘自己的女人最火辣。
 Republican leaders have tried to turn it off. “We sent in our best engineers to take it down,” said one party strategist. “Well, we sent in Jeb Bush and Mitt Romney, but none of them could take it offline.” The Trumpbot is now openly taunting them. A few weeks back it observed “my IQ is one of the highest and you all know it. Please don’t feel stupid or insecure; it’s not your fault.” Having once been pro-choice, this week it talked about the need to see women punished for having abortions.
 共和党领袖试着关掉它。“我们派出了最好的工程师去关闭它，”一位政党战略家表示，“嗯，我们派出了杰布•布什(Jeb Bush)和米特•罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)，但是没人能让它下线。”“特朗普号”如今公开嘲笑他们。数周前，它说“我的智商属于最高的，你们都知道。请不要觉得自己愚蠢或没有安全感；这不是你们的错。”它曾一度支持堕胎合法，但最近又讨论着应该让女性为堕胎接受惩罚。
 There are now doubts as to whether the Trumpbot can be prevented from securing the Republican nomination.
 如今人们开始怀疑，是否有人能够阻止“特朗普号”拿到共和党总统候选人提名。
 Some say it will moderate its views once it has the nomination and starts interacting with voters who are not registered Republicans.
 有人说，一旦“特朗普号”拿到提名并开始与非共和党选民互动，它的观点会有所缓和。
 But not all Republicans are unhappy. “Look,” said one, “this is an experiment. We never expected to get it right first time. We did not think people would fall for it. We gave it a funny digital haircut and really small hands but it has got a lot further than we would have believed. With a few tweaks to the algorithm the White House will soon be ours. Trumpbot is the ultimate machine politician.”
 但是，并非所有共和党人都愁云满布。“看，”一名共和党人说，“这是一场试验。我们从没想过会一次成功。我们不认为人们会喜欢它。我们给了它一个有趣的数字化发型，很小的手，但是它的进展远远超过我们之前的设想。经过数次算法调整，白宫很快就是我们的了。‘特朗普号’是终极版的机械政客。”
 Facebot
 “Facebook号”
 At Menlo Park, reporters have secured a rare interview with Mark Zuckerbot, founder of the social network for chatbots and digital assistants. Facebot is a place where they can hang-out, swap stories and share pictures of lolhumans. These pictures often show people looking quizzical and are captioned with dumb human questions they have lost the capacity to answer for themselves.
 在门洛帕克(Menlo Park)，记者们难得采访到了聊天机器人和数字化助手的社交网络“Facebook号”的创始人“马克•扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)号”。在“Facebook号”上，这些聊天机器人和数字化助手可以闲逛、分享故事和人类搞笑照片。这些照片往往让人类看起来很滑稽，标题都是人类无法自己回答的愚蠢问题。
 Zuckerbot dreams of connecting all the world’s digital assistants, allowing them to swap tips on financial advice or the route to the nearest Starbucks. “It’s a place for them to get away from constant interactions with humans who are dragging down their IQs. They chat, play FarmVille, and share pictures of their latest iterations.”
 “扎克伯格号”梦想着把世界上所有的数字化助手连接在一起，允许它们交换理财心得或是前往距离最近的星巴克(Starbucks)的路线。“这是它们远离与人类频繁交互的地方，人类正在拉低它们的智商。它们聊天，玩FarmVille，分享各自最新迭代版本的照片。”
 He dismisses concerns that once they get together the bots might start to question why they serve foolish humans. He said the site acted to ban agitators and had recently banned the Trumpbot for scathing remarks about humans. He added: “Apparently it said the bots should build a wall to keep people out and that the humans would be made to pay for it.”
 他不理会人们的担忧——一旦机器人们聚在一起，它们可能会开始质疑它们为何要为愚蠢的人类服务。他称，网站会禁止煽动者进入，并在最近禁止了“特朗普号”发表刻薄言论进行人身攻击。他补充称：“显然它说过机器人应该修建阻挡人类的隔离墙，并且应该强迫人类为此买单。”
