Donald Trump on Thursday reached the number of delegates needed to clinch the Republican nomination for president, completing an unlikely rise that has upended the political landscape and sets the stage for a bitter fall campaign.
本周四，唐纳德•特朗普得到了足够的票数，锁定了共和党党内总统候选人提名。一度看似不可能胜利的特朗普却一路胜出，颠覆了政治版图，为即将到来的更加艰苦的秋季竞选铺好了道路。
And he celebrated with McDonald's takeout and Diet Coke on his private plane - after a swipe at his rival Hillary Clinton for being unable to secure the Democratic nomination.
他在自己的私人飞机上吃着麦当劳外卖，喝着健怡可乐来庆祝此次胜利——此前，他攻击对手希拉里•克林顿，说她难保民主党提名。
During a press conference Thursday in North Dakota, Trump said he was 'honored' by the help he received from a handful of local delegates who gave him a majority.
星期四，在北达科他州举办的一场记者招待会中，特朗普说他很“荣幸”得到当地一些选民的帮助，助他赢得了大多数选票。
'I'm so honored by these people! They had such great sense!' Trump beamed.
“有这些人的支持我深感荣幸！他们太有眼光了！”特朗普笑容满面地说。
One, John Trandem, said he was Trump's 1,238th pledged delegate – the one who put him over the top and cemented the presidential nomination.
一位支持者，约翰•川德姆说他是支持特朗普的第1238位选举人——是他让特朗普得以在初选中获胜，敲定他的总统候选人位置的。
Trump shook hands with Trandem - after crowing that Clinton can't do the same.
特朗普与川德姆握手——此前他洋洋自得地说，希拉里可做不到像我一样。
'Here I am watching Hillary fight, and she can't close the deal,' he told reporters. 'We've had tremendous support from almost everybody.'
“我就在这儿看着希拉里角逐候选人提名，她成不了，”他对记者说。“我们的支持者极多，几乎每个人都支持我们。”
It takes 1,237 delegates to win the Republican nomination for president. Trump has reached 1,238. With 303 delegates at stake in five state primaries on June 7, Trump will easily pad his total, avoiding a contested convention in Cleveland in July.
赢得共和党党内总统候选人提名需要1237位选举人的投票。特朗普获得了1238票。还有五个州303位选举人的投票归属未定，6月7日将在这五个州举行预选，届时特朗普会轻易把它们收入囊中，避免7月克利夫兰共和党党代会的火药味太浓。
Trump, a political neophyte who for years delivered caustic commentary on the state of the nation from the sidelines but had never run for office, fought off 16 other Republican contenders in an often ugly primary race.
多年以来，特朗普作为一个局外人发表了很多关于国事尖酸刻薄的评论，他是个政坛菜鸟，从未参加过竞选，但在向来丑恶的预选中他打败了其他16位共和党竞选人。
Many on the right have been slow to warm to Trump, wary of his conservative bona fides. Others worry about Trump's crass personality and the lewd comments he's made about women.
很多右派人士慢慢才接受了特朗普，提防着他对保守党的诚意。另外一些人则担心他粗鲁的个性，以及他对女性下流的评论。
But millions of grassroots activists, many who have been outsiders to the political process, have embraced Trump as a plain-speaking populist who is not afraid to offend.
但是数百万的草根激进分子都拥护特朗普，其中大多数都是政治程序的局外人，认为他是个直率的民粹主义者，不怕惹怒一些群体。
Steve House, chairman of the Colorado Republican Party and an unbound delegate who confirmed his support of Trump to AP, said he likes the billionaire's background as a businessman.
科罗拉多州共和党主席、非绑定代表史蒂夫•豪斯向美联社证实他支持特朗普，他说他喜欢特朗普的商人背景。
'Leadership is leadership,' House said. 'If he can surround himself with the political talent, I think he will be fine.'
“领导要有领导力，”豪斯说。“如果他能在身边聚集起政治人才，我觉得他能行。”
Others who confirmed their decision to back Trump were more tepid, saying they are supporting him out of a sense of obligation because he won their state's primary.
另外一些承认自己支持特朗普的人就没那么热情，他们表示是因为特朗普赢了州预选所以才出于义务支持他的。
Cameron Linton of Pittsburgh said he will back Trump on the first ballot since he won the presidential primary vote in Linton's congressional district.
匹茨堡的卡梅伦•林顿说，他在第一轮投票中会支持特朗普，因为他在林顿所在的国会选区的总统预选中获胜。
'If there's a second ballot I won't vote for Donald Trump,' Linton said. 'He's ridiculous. There's no other way to say it.'
“如果还有第二轮投票，我就不会再支持特朗普了，”林顿说。“他很荒谬。只有这个词才可以形容他。”
All the while, Republican leaders declared themselves appalled by Trump's rise. Conservatives called the onetime Democrat a fraud.
一直以来，共和党领导人都宣称他们对特朗普的崛起感到惊异。他们还把曾经是民主党人的特朗普叫作骗子。
But they failed, ultimately, to block him. Republican leaders slowly, warily, began meeting with Trump and his staff. And he began winning endorsements from a few members of Congress.
但是他们最终失败了，没能阻止他。共和党领导人慢慢地、小心翼翼地开始与特朗普和他手下的工作人员会面。特朗普逐渐赢得了几个国会议员的支持。
Trump incurred relatively low campaign costs — just $57 million through the end of April. He covered most of it with at least $43 million of his own money loaned to the campaign.
特朗普参加选举的花费相对较少——到四月底为止只有5700万美元，其中他自己投入了至少4300万美元，占了参选花费的大部分。
He spent less than $21 million on paid television and radio commercials. That's about one-quarter of what Jeb Bush and his allies spent on TV.
他在付费电视和广播宣传上花的钱不到2100万美元，这一数字是杰布•布什和其盟友在电视广告上所花费的四分之一。
Bush dropped out of the race three months ago, after disappointing results in South Carolina.
布什在南卡罗纳州的得票情况并不理想，三个月之前就退出了竞选。
Trump, 69, the son of a New York City real estate magnate, had risen to fame in the 1980s and 1990s, overseeing major real estate deals, watching his financial fortunes rise, then fall, hosting 'The Apprentice' TV show and authoring more than a dozen books.
现年69岁的特朗普是纽约房地产巨头的儿子，在八九十年代名声鹊起，负责大宗房地产交易，目睹过自己金融财富的涨落，主持过热门电视节目《学徒》，还写了十几本书。
