 Donald Trump has won his home state of New York by a wide margin, giving the property mogul some badly needed momentum after a difficult few weeks in the White House race.
 周二，唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)在家乡纽约州赢得了一场压倒性胜利。这是这位房地产大亨一个月来赢得的首场初选胜利，这场胜利对他来说是场及时雨，有助于他赢得足够多的党代表票，以避免7月份的共和党全国代表大会变成“僵局代表大会”。
 The Associated Press projected that Mr Trump had won the primary election in the Empire State, in a convincing victory over Texas senator Ted Cruz and Ohio governor John Kasich.
 在共和党总统候选人提名战中领跑的特朗普，至少拿到了“帝国州”（纽约州的绰号）95张党代表票中的89张。计票工作完成98%之际，特朗普的得票率为60.5%。俄亥俄州州长约翰•卡西奇(John Kasich)位居第二，得票率为25%，只拿到了3张党代表票。特德•克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)远远落在后面，得票率仅为15%，连1张党代表票也没拿到。
 With 54 per cent of the vote counted, Mr Trump had won 61.5 per cent of the ballots. Mr Kasich was in second place with 24.1 per cent while Mr Cruz lagged behind with 14.3 per cent.
 与此同时，希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在纽约州以两位数的领先优势击败了她的竞争对手伯尼•桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)。希拉里因此宣称，自己在民主党总统候选人提名战中已“胜利在望”。
 The victory was welcome news for Mr Trump who was beaten badly by Mr Cruz in the last two Republican contests in Utah and Wisconsin. Mr Trump had been hoping for a strong showing in New York to pick up as many as possible of the 95 delegates at stake in the “winner-takes-most” state.
 纽约州的这场胜利对特朗普来说是个好消息。在最近于犹他州和威斯康星州举行的两场共和党初选中，他都被克鲁兹以较大优势挫败。特朗普一直希望自己在纽约州能有抢眼的表现，以便在这个“赢者拿下大多数”党代表票的州能够获得尽可能多的票数。
 While he remains the clear frontrunner for the Republican nomination, Mr Trump faces an uphill climb to secure the 1,237 delegates needed to win the nomination on the first ballot at the Republican convention in Cleveland in July.
 尽管特朗普仍是共和党这边明显的领跑者，但他要拿到在7月份克利夫兰共和党全国代表大会首轮投票中赢得提名所必需的1237张党代表票，还有不小的难度。
 Some of the Republican establishment have rallied behind Mr Cruz in recent months in the hope of blocking Mr Trump from getting the nomination and forcing a contested convention. While the Texan is very unpopular with GOP elites, they believe that he would do less damage to the Republican Party.
 最近几个月，共和党建制派的部分成员已团结在克鲁兹周围，希望以此来阻止特朗普获得提名、并强力促成“僵局代表大会”。虽然共和党精英非常不喜欢克鲁兹，但他们相信他对共和党的损害要小一些。
 Before the New York primary, Mr Trump was leading the Republican delegate race with 756 delegates, according to the AP. Mr Cruz was in second with 559.
 据美联社(AP)报道，在纽约州初选前，特朗普以756张党代表票领跑。克鲁兹为559张，排在第二位。
 “We love New York. We love New York,” Mr Trump said at his victory party in his Trump Tower headquarters in Manhattan.
 特朗普在曼哈顿“特朗普大厦”(Trump Tower)总部的庆功会上说：“我们爱纽约，我们爱纽约。”
