 Donald Trump said he would be open to Japan and South Korea building nuclear weapons to deter North Korea, and would consider withdrawing troops from both American allies unless they paid more for their own defence.
 唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)表示，他会对日本和韩国开发核武器以威慑朝鲜的构想抱有开放心态，并会考虑从这两个美国的盟国撤军——除非它们在更大程度上为自己的国防买单。
 In an interview with the New York Times, Mr Trump said that allowing Japan and South Korea to develop a nuclear arsenal would reduce pressure on the US to come to their defence every time North Korea acted belligerently. Washington could not continue to respond to requests for help whenever Pyongyang “raises its head”, he warned.
 特朗普在接受《纽约时报》(New York Times)采访时表示，允许日本和韩国发展核武库将减轻美国的压力，以免每次朝鲜采取挑衅行动时，美国都得驰援日韩两国。他警告称，华盛顿方面不能继续在每当朝鲜“抬头”的时候都响应协防请求。
 “There’ll be a point at which we’re just not going to be able to do it any more. Now, does that mean nuclear? It could mean nuclear,” the frontrunner for the Republican presidential nomination said.
 “到了某个时间点，我们将再也不能这么做了。嗯，那是不是意味着核选项？它可能意味着核选项，”这位共和党总统候选人提名领跑者表示。
 Many experts worry that Japan and South Korea developing atomic weapons would spark a nuclear arms race in east Asia that would be very dangerous, particularly given the tensions between Beijing and Tokyo. But Mr Trump said the US “cannot be the policeman of the world” and suggested Tokyo and Seoul would move in that direction anyway if the US continued along what he described as a path of “weakness”.
 许多专家担心，日本和韩国发展核武器会引发东亚核军备竞赛，那将是非常危险的，尤其是考虑到北京和东京之间的紧张关系。但特朗普表示，美国“当不了世界警察”，并提出，如果美国在他所称的“软弱”道路上走下去，东京和首尔反正会向着发展核武的方向前进。
 “Would I rather have North Korea have them [nuclear weapons] with Japan sitting there having them also? You may very well be better off if that’s the case,” Mr Trump said, before adding that “if Japan had that nuclear threat, I’m not sure that would be a bad thing for us”.
 “我会不会在朝鲜拥有核武的情况下，宁愿让近邻的日本也拥有核武？那很可能是更有利的局面，”特朗普表示。他随即补充说，“如果日本拥有那样的核威慑，我不肯定那对我们会是一件坏事”。
 The Japanese government did not immediately react to the comments from Mr Trump. But Ichiro Matsui, the Osaka governor, said Japan should be ready in case Mr Trump was elected president.
 日本政府没有立即对特朗普的言论作出反应。但大阪府知事松井一郎(Ichiro Matsui)表示，日本应当为特朗普当选总统的可能性做好准备。
 “Japanese politicians should prepare for the possibility of Mr Trump becoming president. Politicians have a duty to prepare for all possible scenarios.”
 “日本政界人士应该为特朗普成为总统的可能性做准备。政界人士有责任为所有可能发生的情况做好准备。”
 While Mr Trump has said the US should do more to tackle terrorism, he has adopted one of the most isolationist stances on foreign policy for a leading Republican presidential contender in years. But in the New York Times interview, he disputed that idea, saying he was “not isolationist, but I am ‘America First’”.
 尽管特朗普表示，美国应该采取更多行动打击恐怖主义，但他采取了共和党总统候选人领跑者多年来最为孤立主义的立场之一。但在接受《纽约时报》采访时，他驳斥了这个说法，称自己“不是孤立主义者，而是信奉‘美国第一’”。
 Foreign policy experts and the other presidential contenders this week criticised Mr Trump for suggesting — one day before the Belgium terror attacks — that Washington take a lesser role in Nato, the 28-member military alliance that has formed the bedrock of the transatlantic security relationship since the second world war.
 外交政策专家和其他总统候选人上周曾批评特朗普的提议；他在比利时遭遇恐袭的前一天提议美国缩减其在北约(Nato)的角色；北约是一个有28个成员国的军事同盟，自第二次世界大战以来构成跨大西洋安全关系的基石。
 During the campaign, Mr Trump has called on Japan and other US allies to pay more for their defence. While most US experts agree that other nations — particularly in Europe — should boost their defence budgets, Mr Trump has gone further. Asked if he would consider removing troops from Japan and South Korea unless they paid more, he said “yes”.
 特朗普在竞选期间呼吁日本等美国盟友加大为各自国防买单的力度。尽管多数美国专家同意，其他国家——尤其是欧洲国家——应该提高它们的国防预算，但特朗普更进一步。在被问及他是否会考虑从日本和韩国撤军——除非它们支付更多时，他说“是的”。
 “I would not do so happily, but I would be willing to do it,” the New York businessman said. “We cannot afford to be losing vast amounts of billions of dollars on all of this . . . And I have a feeling that they’d up the ante very much.”
 “我不会乐于那么做，但我会愿意走出这一步，”这名纽约商人表示，“我们承受不起为这一切损失巨额资金的代价……而我的感觉是，他们会显著加大贡献力度。”
 Underscoring the difficulty in pinning down the foreign policy doctrine to which Mr Trump subscribes, he appeared to take a more interventionist stance on the South China Sea, where China has raised tensions by building artificial islands and dual-use facilities in the contested waters. Asked if he would consider claiming some of the islands or reefs in the South China Sea, he said “perhaps”, before adding that the US had other leverage, including “tremendous economic power over China”.
 突显很难看懂特朗普所信奉的外交政策学说的一点是，他似乎在南中国海采取更为干涉主义的立场；中国在那里的争议海域建造人工岛和军民两用设施，加剧了紧张局势。在被问及他是否会考虑声索南中国海的一部分岛屿或岛礁时，他的回答是“也许”，随即补充说，美国有其它杠杆可以利用，包括“对中国的巨大经济力量”。
