Donald Trump would probably replace Janet Yellen as Federal Reserve chair if he wins the presidential election, the presumptive Republican nominee said on Thursday.
周四，应会成为共和党总统候选人的唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)表示，如果他赢得总统大选，将很可能把现任美联储(Fed)主席珍妮特•耶伦(Janet Yellen)换掉。
The property developer turned politician told CNBC that Ms Yellen is “not a Republican” and that it would be “appropriate” to put someone new in the position when her four-year term expires in February 2018.
这位从地产开发商转型而来的政治家对消费者新闻与商业频道(CNBC)表示，耶伦“不是共和党人”，当2018年2月她的任期届满之际，起用其他人担任此职位，将是“合适的”。
Nevertheless, Mr Trump also said that he agreed with Ms Yellen’s policy of keeping short-term interest rates low, saying that rate increases would push up the dollar and damage America’s competitive position with China, as well as making it harder to service US debt.
然而，特朗普也表示，他认同耶伦把短期利率维持在低水平的政策。他表示，加息将推高美元汇率，损及美国相对中国的竞争地位，并加大偿还美国债务利息的难度。
“I have nothing against Janet Yellen whatsoever; I think she has been doing her job,” said Mr Trump, describing her as “very capable”. However, he added: “She is not a Republican . . . when her time is up I would most likely replace her because of the fact that I think it would be appropriate.”
“我绝不是在哪些方面反对珍妮特•耶伦；我认为，她在一直在履行自己的职责，”特朗普说。他觉得耶伦“很能干”。然而，他接着说：“她不是共和党人……当她的任期结束时，我将非常可能把她替换掉，因为我认为这么做将是合适的。”
Previous presidents have been willing to keep Fed chairmen in post regardless of their political leanings. Despite his Republican affiliation, Ben Bernanke clinched a second term in 2010 under President Barack Obama. Alan Greenspan was similarly appointed to a third term under Bill Clinton in the 1990s.
以前的总统一直愿意不管美联储主席所属的党派，让其留任。尽管伯南克是共和党人，但他在2010年获得巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)任命，得以连任。同样，在1990年代，艾伦•格林斯潘(Alan Greenspan)获得比尔•克林顿(Bill Clinton)任命，得以第二次连任。
Mr Trump’s supportive comments about the Fed’s easy monetary policy were a reversal from his position last year, when he chastised Ms Yellen for failing to raise rates, saying she was leaving them low to help Mr Obama’s administration.
特朗普此番支持美联储宽松货币政策的言论，恰好与他在去年的立场相反。去年，他曾强烈谴责耶伦没有决定加息，并表示，她让利率维持在低水平，是为了帮助奥巴马政府。
“I love the concept of a strong dollar,” Mr Trump said on Thursday. “But when you look at the havoc that a strong dollar causes . . . I can tell you, I have friends in China: all they do is watch the dollar. They love to see it go up.”
“我喜欢强势美元的理念，”特朗普在周四说。“但是，当你看到强势美元带来的混乱……我可以告诉你们，我在中国有不少朋友：他们所作的一切，就是观察美元。他们乐见美元走强。”
Higher interest rates would also make it tougher for America to service its debt, Mr Trump added. He described himself as the “king of debt”, but said that it had to be handled with care. “You are talking about something that is very, very fragile,” he said.
加息也将增加偿还美国债务利息的难度，特朗普接着说。他把自己描述为“债务之王”，但表示，必须谨慎处理债务。“我们在谈论非常、非常脆弱的东西，”他说。
