 Donald Trump swept all of the five Republican primary races on Tuesday, securing big wins that boosted his chances of avoiding a contested convention when the party meets in Cleveland to choose its presidential nominee.
 唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)在周二举行的五场共和党初选中大获全胜，这一结果使其有更大的可能避免提名总统候选人的克利夫兰共和党全国代表大会演变成一场“僵局代表大会”。
 The New York property developer won Pennsylvania, Maryland, Connecticut, Delaware and Rhode Island, beating Texas senator Ted Cruz and Ohio governor John Kasich by margins of more than 30 points in each state.
 这位纽约房地产开发商拿下了宾夕法尼亚州、马里兰州、康涅狄格州、特拉华州和罗得岛州，他在每个州的得票率均领先得克萨斯州参议员特德•克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)和俄亥俄州州长约翰•卡西奇(John Kasich) 30个百分点以上。
 “I consider myself the presumptive nominee,” Mr Trump declared in a victory speech at Trump Tower in New York. “Senator Cruz and Governor Kasich should really get out  of the race. They have no path to victory.”
 特朗普在纽约特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的获胜讲话中宣称：“我认为自己已经是假定被提名人。克鲁兹参议员和卡西奇州长真的应该退出这场选战。他们已无获胜可能。”
 In the Democratic contest, Hillary Clinton sealed her status as the presumptive nominee by beating Bernie Sanders in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Connecticut and Delaware, but losing in Rhode Island.
 在民主党方面的较量中，希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)只在罗得岛州败给了伯尼•桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)，但在宾夕法尼亚州、马里兰州、康涅狄格州和特拉华州都击败了后者，锁定了假定被提名人地位。
 Speaking in Pennsylvania, she pivoted towards the general election by attacking Messrs Trump and Cruz while making a pitch for Mr Sanders’ supporters.
 希拉里在宾夕法尼亚州发表讲话时，把重心转向了大选，她对特朗普和克鲁兹进行了抨击，同时努力拉拢桑德斯的支持者。
 The outcome on Tuesday helped Mr Trump move closer to the 1,237 delegates needed to win the Republican nomination on the first ballot at the convention. He boosted his total to at least 950 delegates, meaning he has to win roughly 46 per cent of the remaining delegates to secure the nomination.
 周二的投票结果帮助特朗普朝着拿到1237张党代表票又迈进了一步——要想在共和党全国代表大会首轮投票中赢得总统候选人提名，必须至少拿到1237张党代表票。特朗普拿到的党代表票数现已升至至少950张，这意味着要想锁定提名，他需要拿到剩余党代表票的约46%。
 While many political experts had predicted that Mr Trump had a ceiling of roughly 40 per cent among Republican voters, his lowest result on Tuesday was the 55 per cent that he looked likely to win in Maryland. His best performance was in Rhode Island, which he took with 64 per cent of the vote.
 虽然许多政治专家曾预测最多只会有40%左右的共和党选民把票投给特朗普，但周二他即使是在自己表现最差的马里兰州，得票率也有55%，而在表现最佳的罗得岛州，得票率高达64%。
 After the poor showing on Tuesday, Mr Cruz — who was headed for third place in four of the states — joined Mr Kasich in having no mathematical path to the nomination.
 经历了表现糟糕的周二后，克鲁兹已与卡西奇一样，在统计意义失去了赢得提名的可能。
 Both men are pinning their hopes on a contested convention. On Sunday they agreed to co-ordinate their campaigns in Indiana, Oregon and New Mexico to maximise the chances of denying Mr Trump delegate support.
 目前这两人都寄望于上演“僵局代表大会”。上周日，两人商定协调他们在印第安纳州、俄勒冈州和新墨西哥州的竞选活动，以最大程度地限制特朗普获得党代表支持的机会。
