 Donald Trump has come under fire for suggesting that women should be punished for having abortions, as the Republican presidential frontrunner risks further alienating female voters.
 由于暗示妇女应该因堕胎而受到处罚，唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)受到了众人的抨击。这位共和党总统候选人头号竞争者因此面临进一步疏远女性选民的风险。
 In an interview with MSNBC television, Mr Trump repeated his stance that abortion should be banned. But he sparked controversy by stating that women — as opposed to the doctors who perform the operation — should be punished if the Supreme Court overturned the landmark Roe v Wade decision that legalised the procedure in 1973. 
 在接受微软全国广播公司(MSNBC)电视采访时，特朗普重申了他禁止堕胎的立场。不过，引发争议的部分在于，他说，假若美国最高法院(Supreme Court)推翻了里程碑式的罗伊诉韦德案(Roe v Wade)的结论，那么妇女应该因堕胎而受到处罚——而不是执行堕胎手术的医生。1973年，正是对罗伊诉韦德案的裁定，令堕胎合法化。
 “There has to be some form of punishment [for women],” Mr Trump said under pressure after the MSNBC anchor told the New York mogul — who has a tendency to be evasive when pressed — not to “dodge” the question. 
 这位纽约富豪在被强制问到这个问题时曾出现推诿倾向，MSNBC的主持人告诉他不要“回避”这个问题。于是，面临压力的特朗普表示：“（对涉事妇女）应该处以某种形式的处罚。”
 While the vast majority of Republicans, including all three GOP presidential contenders, oppose abortion, critics of the procedure typically argue that the doctor, and not the woman, should face punishment if it was outlawed. 
 虽然包括三名共和党总统候选人竞争者在内，绝大多数共和党人反对堕胎，但是通常对堕胎的批评意见认为，如果堕胎非法，应该面临处罚的是医生而不是妇女。
 Mr Trump’s remarks sparked criticism from across the political spectrum. The Democratic National Committee said they showed that his “vileness and contempt for women knows no bounds”. Jeanne Mancini, president of an anti-abortion group called March for Life, said he was “incredibly out of touch with [the] pro-life movement and women in general”. 
 特朗普的说法引发了整个政界的批评。民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)表示，这些话显示他“对妇女的厌恶和蔑视毫无底线”。反堕胎组织March for Life总裁珍妮•曼西尼(Jeanne Mancini)表示，他“与反堕胎运动、与妇女总体的脱节令人难以置信”。
 Hillary Clinton, the former New York senator who will make a strong play for the female vote if she becomes the Democratic nominee, said: “We can’t let someone with this much contempt for women’s rights anywhere near the White House.” Ted Cruz, the Texas senator who remains the only candidate who can stop Mr Trump from getting the 1,237 delegates needed to win the Republican nomination before the party convention, also attacked the tycoon. 
 曾任纽约州参议员的希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)表示：“我们不能让如此蔑视妇女权益的人接近白宫。”一旦成为民主党总统提名人，希拉里将大力争取女性的公民权。此外，德克萨斯州参议员特德•克鲁斯(Ted Cruz)也抨击了这位大亨。目前，克鲁斯是唯一可能在共和党党代会以前，阻止特朗普获得赢得共和党总统提名人所需的1237个代表席位的候选人。
“Once again Donald Trump has demonstrated that he hasn’t seriously thought through the issues, and he’ll say anything just to get attention,” said Mr Cruz. “What’s far too often neglected is that being pro-life is not simply about the unborn child. It’s also about the mother, and creating a culture that respects her and embraces life.” 
 After his remarks ignited a firestorm, Mr Trump reversed his position. “If Congress were to pass legislation making abortion illegal and the federal courts upheld this legislation, or any state were permitted to ban abortion under state and federal law, the doctor or any other person performing this illegal act upon a woman would be held legally responsible, not the woman,” he said in a statement. “The woman is a victim in this case as is the life in her womb. My position has not changed — like Ronald Reagan, I am pro-life with exceptions.”
 在言论引发巨大风暴之后，特朗普逆转了他的立场。他在一份声明中表示：“假若国会要通过法案令堕胎非法，而联邦法院也支持这一法案，或者任何州被允许依照联邦法律和州法律禁止堕胎，那么对妇女实施这一非法行为的医生或任何其他个人应该承担法律责任，而不是这位妇女。在这种情况下，妇女和其子宫内的生命一样都是受害者。与罗纳德•里根(Ronald Reagan)类似，我的立场并未改变，我反对堕胎——除了某些例外情况。”
