Republican presidential front-runner DonaldTrump has accused China of "raping" the US, in renewed criticism ofChina's trade policy.
共和党总统竞选领先者特朗普重申对中国贸易政策的批评，指责中国“强暴”美国。
He told a rally in Indiana that China wasresponsible for "the greatest theft in the history of the world".
他在印第安纳向集会人群表示，中国应该对“世界史上最大盗窃案”负责。
Mr Trump, a billionaire businessman, haslong accused China of manipulating its currency to make its exports morecompetitive globally. This, he says, has badly damaged US businesses andworkers.
这位身家数十亿的巨商，长期以来一直指控中国操纵汇率使其出口在全球更具竞争力。他说，这严重损害美国的产业和工人。
We can't continue to allow China to rapeour country…he told the campaign rally on Sunday. "We're going to turn itaround, and we have the cards, don't forget it," he added. "We have alot of power with China."
“我们不能继续让中国强暴我国……”他周日在竞选集会上说。“我们要扭转这个局面，我们手中有牌，别忘了。”他还说。“我们有很多能力对付中国。”
Mr Trump, in his campaign manifesto,pledges to "cut a better deal with China that helps American businessesand workers compete".
特朗普在竞选宣言中誓言“与中国达成有助于美国产业和工人竞争的更好协议”。
He sets out four goals that includeimmediately declaring China "a currency manipulator" and putting"an end to China's illegal export subsidies and lax labour andenvironmental standards".
他提出了四个目标，包括立即宣布中国为“货币操纵国”，“终止中国的非法贸易补贴和宽松的劳工和环境标准。”
There was no immediate response fromBeijing to Mr Trump's comments, but he is seen by many in China as aninspiration rather than an antagonist.
北京对特朗普的评论没有立刻予以回应，但他在中国被很多人视为灵感而不是敌手。
Latest figures from Washington for US-Chinagoods trade in January and February show the relationship does appear to beskewed. In those months the US exported $16.3bn in goods to China, but imported$73.3bn, leaving a massive goods trade imbalance of $57bn.
华盛顿公布的美中货物贸易一月和二月的最新数据显示，贸易关系确实看来是失衡的。在这两个月，美国向中国出口货物163亿美元，但进口733亿美元，留下570亿美元的巨额贸易逆差。
Last week, the US Treasury placed China(and others) on a currency watchlist, after pressure on the US government to bemore robust in combating any currency manipulation by trading partners.
上周，美国财政部把中国和其他一些国家列入货币观察名单，因为外界施压美国政府，要求采取更强健措施，对付贸易伙伴的任何汇率操纵。
