 Credit Suisse is planning a further push into China, where it has been “underweight”, as the bank’s chief executive shrugs aside fears over the slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.
 瑞士信贷(Credit Suisse)计划进一步打入它所占分量一直不足的中国市场，该行首席执行官提贾尼•蒂亚姆（Tidjane Thiam，上图）未理会人们对世界第二大经济体增长放缓的担忧。
 The drive is part of the Swiss bank’s renewed focus on Asia under the strategy of Tidjane Thiam, who took over last summer. Since then, he has been pruning its investment bank in favour of redeploying capital to its wealth management and private banking units.
 此举是这家瑞士银行重新聚焦亚洲的战略的一部分，该战略是蒂亚姆去年夏天接掌该行后提出的。自那以来，他一直在裁减该行的投行部门，以便把资本调配到理财和私人银行部门。
 “It’s fair to say we’ve got a good team but we’ve been underweight in China. It’s one place where we can grow,” Mr Thiam said on Tuesday at the bank’s annual Asian Investment Conference in Hong Kong. “I don’t understand the obsession with the [China] slowdown.”
 周二，在香港召开的瑞信年度亚洲投资大会(Asian Investment Conference)上，蒂亚姆表示：“公平地讲，我们已经拥有了一个不错的团队，但我们在中国所占的分量一直不足。中国是我们能取得增长的地方。我不理解那种对（中国）放缓的执念。”
 Mr Thiam will head to China on a five-day trip later this week. The country’s economic slowdown, he said, was to be expected with the economy transitioning from a capital-intensive industrial-led model to one of consumption-driven growth.
 本周晚些时候，蒂亚姆将前往中国，展开为期五天的访问。他说，在中国经济从资本密集型工业主导的模式转向消费驱动增长的模式之际，中国经济放缓是意料之中的。
 China’s target is for economic growth of 6.5 per cent is year, its slowest in more than two decades and down from annual rates above 10 per cent five years ago.
 中国今年的经济增速目标为6.5%，是逾二十年来的最慢增速，大大低于五年前逾10%的年增速。
 “Everyone says, ‘oh my God’, six is lower than 10. Well, yes, I can never disagree with that, but 6 per cent is still a hell of a lot more than Europe or any other part of the world,” said Mr Thiam.
 蒂亚姆表示：“所有人都在说，‘哦，天哪！’6比10要低。嗯，没错，这话我没法反驳，但6%仍比欧洲或全球其他任何地方高得多。”
 “If you are a wealth manager you want to be where the wealth is being created. And wealth is being created on a huge scale in emerging markets whichever way you want to look at it,” he added.
 他补充说：“如果你是位财富管理者，你会希望到创造财富的地方去。不管你打算怎么看，新兴市场都在创造规模巨大的财富。”
 Mr Thiam said the bank’s growth plans in the region would be led by its wealth management unit, but needed investment banking support.
 蒂亚姆表示，瑞信在亚洲的增长计划将由其理财部门带动，但需要得到投行部门的支持。
 “We’re investing in opportunities in China and it will be primarily a wealth management-driven strategy with investment banking, because all those clients we’re going to see in China — they’re interested in both,” he said. “Their investment banking needs are real and we think we make money from that combination.”
 他说：“我们正在对中国的机遇展开投资，它将主要是一种由理财驱动的、搭配投行业务的战略，原因是我们在华将会晤的那些客户，他们对两者都感兴趣。他们对投资银行的需求是切实存在的，我认为我们能从两者的结合中获利。”
