A Swedish human rights activist arrested in China has admitted to crimes on state television, the second Swedish national to feature in a TV confession in recent days, as authorities increasingly turn to such broadcasts in their crackdown on dissent.
一名在中国被拘的瑞典人权活动人士已在中国中央电视台(CCTV)节目中招认罪行，这是近期第二名在央视节目中认罪的瑞典籍公民。中国当局正日益诉诸这类广播电视节目来打击异见人士。
Peter Jesper Dahlin, who was initially reported detained last week, had “sponsored activities jeopardising China’s national security”, state news agency Xinhua reported late on Tuesday.
中国官方通讯社新华社周二晚报道称，彼得耶斯佩尔达林(Peter Jesper Dahlin)“涉嫌资助危害国家安全犯罪活动罪”。彼得被拘的消息最初是上周传出来。
“This is obviously an issue of grave concern for us,” Hans Dietmar Schweisgut, EU ambassador to China, told a press conference on Wednesday. “We do hope [the detentions] are not a ‘new normal’ but we do see an extremely worrying trend, he added, calling for “full transparency and full access” in such cases.
欧盟驻华大使史伟(Hans Dietmar Schweisgut)在周三的一个新闻发布会上表示：“这显然是一个引起我们严重关切的问题。”他补充称：“我们希望（这种拘留）不是一种‘新常态’，但我们的确看到一种极其令人担忧的趋势。”他呼吁在这类案件中“做到完全透明，不设置任何障碍”。
Televised confessions by those accused of politically sensitive crimes have become common in China, even as criminal complaints and judicial proceedings are largely kept secret. Mr Dahlin and other suspects “have been put under coercive measures in line with the criminal law”, Xinhua said.
在中国，那些被控犯有政治上敏感罪行的人在电视上认罪已变得普遍起来，而与此同时，刑事指控和司法程序却基本上是不公开的。新华社报道称，彼得等犯罪嫌疑人“被依法采取刑事强制措施”。
“Certain people that we supported at one time or another have gone on to do acts in clear violation of the law,” Mr Dahlin said in the broadcast on Tuesday. “And we know that in some cases ... they have been very serious crimes. And we are also aware that this also means that we as an organisation become criminally liable for the things that they have done.”
“我们资助过的某些人曾从事明显违法的行为，”彼得在周二的节目中表示，“而且我们知道，在某些案子中……他们犯下了非常严重的罪行。我们还知道，这也意味着我们作为一个组织要对他们做过的事情负刑事责任。”
The arrest is the latest in Chinese authorities’ campaign against lawyers and rights activists. Last July dozens of lawyers were rounded up in a nationwide sweep. In December Pu Zhiqiang, one of China’s most famous rights lawyers, was given a suspended prison sentence for inciting ethnic hatred and disrupting public order.
此案是中国当局打击律师和维权人士行动的最新一例。去年7月，数十名律师在一场全国性打击行动中被拘。去年12月，中国最知名维权律师之一浦志强被判有期徒刑、缓期执行，罪名是煽动民族仇恨和寻衅滋事。
Mr Dahlin also said in his confession that an activist his organisation had trained had “illegally brought the son of lawyer Wang Yu across an international border”.
彼得在认罪时还表示，他所在组织培训的一名维权人士曾“策划组织锋锐律师事务所律师王宇之子偷越国边境”。
Xinhua said Mr Dahlin had “hired and trained others, who were called ‘lawyers’ and petitioners, to gather, distort, exaggerate and even fabricate negative information about China”, and compiled it into a human rights report. The Chinese Urgent Action Working Group had received “unregulated huge sums of money” from seven unnamed foreign non-governmental organisations, the agency said.
新华社称，彼得曾“资助和培训无照‘律师’、少数访民，利用他们搜集我国各类负面情况，加以歪曲、扩大甚至凭空捏造，向境外提供所谓‘中国人权报告’。中国维权紧急援助组(Chinese Urgent Action Working Group)长期接受某外国非政府组织等7家境外机构的‘巨额资助’”。
CCTV quoted Mr Dahlin as saying that information gathered from the internet for the organisation’s human rights report “doesn’t represent the true and comprehensive situation” and that he had not personally witnessed the cases described — although Mr Dahlin was not shown making that statement.
央视援引彼得的话称，“其中的内容几乎都是通过网上搜索查询等方式做出来的，并不能反映真实全面的情况，具体案例我没有亲眼所见，我不能保证报告中的内容属实”——尽管彼得并没有在节目中说这番话。
