Lech Walesa, the former Polish president and hero of the anti-communist movement, was a paid informant for the Soviet-era security services, Polish investigators said yesterday, citing recently unearthed documents.
波兰调查人员昨日援引最近重见天日的文件表示，该国前总统、当年反共运动的英雄莱赫瓦文萨(Lech Walesa)曾是苏联时代安全部门的有偿线人。
Mr Walesa, who founded and led the Solidarity trade union that ultimately brought down communist rule in Poland and helped bring an end to Soviet control of eastern Europe, agreed to become a paid informant for the communist secret services between 1970-76, Poland’s National Remembrance Institute said.
瓦文萨是团结工会(Solidarity)的创始人和领导人。团结工会最终推翻了波兰的共产党统治，并帮助整个东欧摆脱了苏联的控制。波兰国家纪念研究所(IPN)现在称，他曾在1970年至1976年同意成为共产党安全部门的有偿线人。
The claim, which Mr Walesa denies, comes just months after the return to power of Poland’s conservative nationalist Law and Justice party, which believes that communist-era officials still hold positions of power in the EU’s sixth-largest economy and need to be rooted out. Law and Justice leaders say too many have been able to carry influence, wealth and authority into the post-1989 era and that not enough has been done to prosecute them.
瓦文萨否认这一说法。该指控出炉仅仅几个月前，波兰法律与正义党(PiS)重新掌权。这个立场保守的民族主义政党认为，共产党时代的官员仍把持着波兰（欧盟第六大经济体）的实权职位，这些人需要被扫地出门。法律与正义党领导人表示，这些人当中有不少人在1989年后的时代能够继续拥有影响力、财富和权力，官方没有采取足够行动对他们提起公诉。
The state-run institute said a cache of documents uncovered this week showed Mr Walesa — using the code name “Bolek” — provided information to the regime’s secret police.
国营的国家纪念研究所表示，本周发现的一批文件显示，瓦文萨——使用代号“Bolek”——当年向政权的秘密警察提供了信息。
“There is a handwritten commitment to co-operate with the security service, signed: Lech Walesa, ‘Bolek’,” said the institute, set up in 1998 to investigate crimes committed by Nazi and communist authorities in Poland between 1939 and 1989.
“有一份与安全部门合作的手写承诺，签名是：莱赫瓦文萨，‘Bolek’，”该研究所表示。这家研究所成立于1998年，使命是调查1939年至1989年期间纳粹和共产党当局在波兰犯下的罪行。
Mr Walesa, 72, an international celebrity and cold war hero who was awarded the 1983 Nobel Peace Prize for leading the campaign to restore democracy to Poland, has always denied claims that he collaborated with the regime he went on to campaign against.
现年72岁的瓦文萨是国际名人和冷战英雄，他曾因领导在波兰恢复民主的运动而在1983年被授予诺贝尔和平奖。他一贯否认他曾与自己后来公开反对的政权合作的说法。
In 2000, he was cleared of any collaboration by a special court. Before the announcement this week, Mr Walesa wrote on his personal blog: “There cannot be any files related to me...I will prove that in court.”
2000年，一个特别法庭判决他是清白的，称没有他与当局勾结的证据。在本周的宣布作出之前，瓦文萨在他的个人博客中写道：“不可能存在与我有关的任何文件……我将在法庭上证明这一点。”
Taking office in 1990 as the first freely elected president of Poland for 63 years, Mr Walesa’s popularity has waned over the past decade, amid accusations of collaboration and deep divisions in Polish society.
瓦文萨在1990年成为波兰63年来首位自由选举产生的总统。但在勾结指控和波兰社会深刻分歧的背景下，过去10年他的人气下降。
The documents were uncovered at the house of Czeslaw Kiszczak, the last communist-era interior minister of Poland, after his widow reportedly attempted to sell them.
相关文件是在波兰共产党时代最后一任内务部长切斯瓦夫蘒什恰克(Czeslaw Kiszczak)家里发现的，此前有报道称，他的遗孀试图出售文件。
