Four Tennessee high school students have been charged with indecent exposure in recent weeks, and two of them jailed for it -- all because they wore sagging pants.
最近几周，田纳西州的四名高中生遭到起诉，因为穿着不当、过于暴露，其中两人锒铛入狱，皆源起沙基裤。
Two seniors at Bolivar Central High School, about 70 miles east of Memphis, spent 48 hours in jail because of their low-riding clothing.
两名来自玻利瓦尔中央中学（孟菲斯市东约70英里）的高年级学生在监狱里渡过了48小时，都是因为穿了腰低得过分的沙基裤。
"I just took it and went on," one of the students, Antonio Ammons, told local NBC station WMC. "I didn't know what else to do."
其中一位名叫安东尼奥·安蒙斯的学生对美国全国广播公司（NBC）的当地频道WMC说道：“我就是穿上这条裤子出门罢了，我不知道还要做些什么。”
He told the station he had never been in jail before, and was placed with the other inmates.
他说他从来没有坐过牢，这次却要和狱友共处。
"I really didn't like it," Ammons told WREG, the CBS station in Memphis. He said he also has to figure out how to pay more than $250 in fines and court fees.
安蒙斯对哥伦比亚广播公司（CBS）孟菲斯市的WREG频道说道：“我真的很讨厌这样。”他说他还弄懂了怎样交纳超过250美元的罚款和诉讼费。
Saggy pants violate the school dress code, and the school's resource officer, Deputy Charles Woods, said he had already reprimanded the students several times, according WREG.
据WREG频道报道，沙基裤违反了学校的衣着规范。此前，驻校治安警员查理斯·伍兹也曾多次批评他们穿沙基裤的行为。
Records posted online by the Hardeman County Sheriff's Department show four arrests for indecent exposure between Nov. 1 and Nov. 15, with three of the arrests made by Woods.
据哈德曼郡警局的网上记录显示，11月1日-15日期间，因不当暴露被捕的记录有四次，其中三次都是伍兹负责逮捕的。
The arresting officer of the fourth is not listed.
第四次逮捕的负责警官不明。
Woods said in an affidavit that Ammons had been suspended previously for allegedly "showing gang related/hate violence or intimidation," and that he "walks around all day every day disrespecting the rules of the school, the principal, the teachers, other students and even the SRO,” according to the Daily Beast.
据《每日野兽》报道，伍兹在法庭证词中说道，安蒙斯曾因“涉嫌与黑帮团伙接触，有暴力倾向或恐吓意图”而遭到停学处理。他“每天都目无校规校纪，不尊重校长、老师、同学，甚至藐视法纪，在学校大摇大摆。”
However, not everyone agreed with the decision to jail the students for their clothing choice.
然而，并不是每个人都赞成因衣着选择而将学生关入监狱的做法。
"I think jail time might be a little too much, but at the same time there has been a lot of sagging pants," parent Crystal Wing told WMC.
为人父母的克里斯托·维恩对WMC频道说道：“我觉得坐牢的处罚有点过，但确实穿沙基裤的人太多了。”
"Maybe we have them do some community service, pick up some trash, help at the dog kennels, things like that," Sharon Till told WREG. "I think putting them in jail is just a little bit much."
莎伦·提尔对WREG频道说道：“或许我们可以让他们做做社区服务，比如捡捡垃圾、清理狗窝之类的。让他们坐牢有点过了。”
Saggy pants have become a point of contention in some communities, and have been banned in several places including Opa-Locka, Florida, and Wildwood, New Jersey. Earlier this year, a city council member in Dadeville, Alabama, proposed banning sagging pants because "God would not go around with pants down."
在一些地区，沙基裤已经成为了争论焦点。弗洛里达州的奥帕洛卡和新泽西州的怀尔德伍德等地已经禁穿。今年早些时候，亚拉巴马州戴德维尔市的一位市议会议员提议禁穿沙基裤，因为“那种有人裤子没提上去的地方，上帝是不会去的。”
