Instead of focusing on internationaluniversity rankings, should students be looking at box office takings?
学生不应当关注大学的国际排名，而应当关注票房收入？
Sir Anthony Seldon, vice chancellor of BuckinghamUniversity and former headmaster of Wellington College, says: "Televisionand film portrayals of schools and universities are far more important inopinion formation I think than generally realised."
白金汉大学副校长，威灵顿公学前校长塞尔登爵士说：“我认为，中小学和大学的影视形象在舆论造势中远比通常认为的重要。”
This is supported by a recent survey ofChinese and South Korean students in the United States, which suggested morethan two thirds had been influenced by the movie image of going to an Americanuniversity.
这个观点得到了最近一项对在美中韩留学生进行的调查的支持，该调查表明，超过三分之二的学生受到上美国大学的电影形象的影响。
The US is the world's biggest destinationfor overseas students and it brings an estimated $20bn each year to theeconomy.
美国是世界最大的留学生目的地，留学生每年带来约200亿美元的经济收益。
Movies such as A Beautiful Mind set inPrinceton, Legally Blonde and The Social Network in Harvard, and The Graduatein Berkeley, California, have taken the US campus experience to a globalaudience, showcasing everything from the academic facilities to wild fraternityparties.
背景设在普林斯顿大学的《美丽心灵》,设在哈佛大学的《律政俏佳人》和《社交网络》，设在加州伯克利大学的《毕业生》等电影，为全球观众带来了美国的校园体验，展示了从教学设施到狂野的联谊会的种种景象。
Universities in New Zeland have benefitedfrom The Lord of the Rings effect. Dr Alfio Leotta, an academic at VictoriaUniversity of Wellington, says the movies have encouraged the growth of filmstudies in New Zealand.
新西兰大学受益于《指环王》效应。威灵顿维多利亚大学的学者里奥塔博士说，电影促进了新西兰电影研究的发展。
There has been a lot of critical interestin both Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit and one of the consequences is thatstudents now regard New Zealand, and Wellington in particular, as a place thatcan produce major blockbusters.
“外界一直对《指环王》和《霍比特人》有着很多的评论兴趣，结果之一就是学生们现在把新西兰，特别是威灵顿看作是能够制作重要大片的地方。”
The global success of the Harry Potterfilms has been claimed as a factor in encouraging overseas students to come toBritish boarding schools.
《哈里波特》系列电影在全球取得的成功，被认为是促使海外学生去英国寄宿学校留学的一个因素。
When universities are competing hard forthe attention of overseas students, the cinema screen could be anunder-recognised way of raising a global profile.
当大学都在竞相吸引留学生的关注时，电影屏幕可能是一种被低估了的提高全球知名度的方法。
