WASHINGTON — President Obama poked fun at Hillary Clinton’s lack of appeal among young people Saturday night, joking at the annual White House press corps dinner that Mrs. Clinton was like an aging relative who cannot figure out how to use Facebook.
华盛顿——周六晚，在每年一次的白宫记者晚宴上，奥巴马总统拿希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)对年轻人缺乏吸引力开玩笑，说克林顿夫人像是一个不知道怎么用Facebook的长辈亲戚。
“Did you get my poke? Is it on my wall?” he said, imagining Mrs. Clinton trying to use the popular social media site. “I’m not sure I’m using this right. Love, Aunt Hillary.”
奥巴马想象希拉里试图使用这个流行社交媒体网站时这样问人，“你收到我的戳一下(poke)了吗？它在我的墙上吗？我不知道我用的对不对。爱你的，希拉里姑妈。”
Mr. Obama also needled Mrs. Clinton for paid speeches she gave for Goldman Sachs. He noted that if his comedy routine, during his final appearance at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner, was successful, he could earn “serious Tubmans” — a nod to Harriet Tubman, the American abolitionist whose image will be printed on future $20 bills.
奥巴马还拿希拉里挣给高盛演讲的钱开心。他表示，如果他在白宫记者协会晚宴最后一次出场用的段子成功的话，他可以去挣“大把大把的塔布曼”，美国废奴主义者哈丽雅特·塔布曼(Harriet Tubman)的头像将印在改版后的20美元纸币上。
He referred to Senator Bernie Sanders, who was in the audience, as “comrade,” a reference to his political status as a democratic socialist.
奥巴马提到听众中的参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)时，称其为“同志”，暗指桑德斯作为一名民主社会主义者的政治身份。
But the president reserved his most biting commentary for the Republicans running for president, repeatedly turning to the party’s chaotic nominating contest for comedic fodder.
不过，奥巴马把他最尖刻的评论留给了正在竞选总统提名的共和党人，他多次把混乱的共和党提名人竞选当作笑料。
Mr. Obama mocked Senator Ted Cruz for calling a basketball hoop a “basketball ring” while campaigning in Indiana.
奥巴马嘲笑参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)在印第安纳州竞选时，把篮球筐叫“篮球环儿”。
“What else is in his lexicon?” Mr. Obama asked, working hard to contain a broad smile. “Baseball sticks? Football hats?”
奥巴马一边努力压住一个咧嘴笑，一边问道，“他的词汇表中还有什么？棒球棍儿？橄榄球帽儿？”
He paused, then added: “But sure, I’m the foreign one.”
The president showed a picture of Gov. John Kasich of Ohio eating pancakes as he noted that “some candidates aren’t polling high enough to qualify for their own joke tonight.” And he tweaked Republicans in the audience for their search for an alternative candidate, noting that the options for dinner were steak or fish.
奥巴马放了一张俄亥俄州州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)吃薄饼的幻灯片，同时说，“有些候选人的民调得分太低，不够在今晚的段子里点名的。”他还逗乐听众中的共和党人，开他们寻找替代候选人的玩笑，说客人可在晚宴菜单上选择牛排或鱼。
“A whole bunch of you wrote in Paul Ryan,” he said. “You may not like steak or fish. But that’s your choice.”
“你们中一大堆人硬是把保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)填上去，他说。“你们可以不喜欢牛排或鱼，但只有这些选择。”
And then there was Donald Trump. Mr. Obama riffed at length about Mr. Trump, the billionaire-turned-front-runner, who was not in attendance. The president wondered aloud why Mr. Trump had chosen not to be there.
当然也少不了唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)。奥巴马花了不少时间说特朗普，这位亿万富翁摇身一变，成了共和党提名人竞选的领先者，他并不在场。奥巴马大声琢磨着特朗普为什么选择不出席晚餐。
“You’ve got a room full of reporters, celebrities, cameras, and he said no,” Mr. Obama said. “Is this dinner too tacky for the Donald?”
“这满屋子都是记者、名人，还有摄像机，他却说不来，”奥巴马说。“难道这个晚餐对我们的唐纳德来说太俗气了？”
He joked that Mr. Trump had some foreign policy experience because “he has spent years meeting with leaders from around the world: Miss Sweden, Miss Argentina, Miss Azerbaijan.”
奥巴马开玩笑说特朗普有一些外交政策的经验，因为“他多年来一直在与世界各地的领导人见面：瑞典小姐、阿根廷小姐、阿塞拜疆小姐”。
And he noted that Mr. Trump may be the best person to succeed in closing the prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.
奥巴马还指出，特朗普也许是能成功关闭设在古巴关塔那摩湾的监狱的最佳人选。
“Trump knows a thing or two about running waterfront properties into the ground,” Mr. Obama said.
“特朗普对如何搞砸临水地产略知一二，”奥巴马说。
The president delivered his remarks with deft comic timing in a lengthy monologue that was both ironic and introspective.
奥巴马的冗长独白既有讽刺、也不乏自我反省，他在讲话中娴熟地调节语速，达到了极佳的喜剧效果。
Members of the news media did not escape the president’s acerbic sense of humor. He joked that the movie “Spotlight,” about The Boston Globe’s investigation into sexual abuse by Catholic priests and holding the powerful accountable, was “the best fantasy film since ‘Star Wars.’” And he tweaked the news media for giving Mr. Trump “the appropriate amount of coverage, befitting the seriousness of his candidacy.”
在座的新闻媒体成员也没能逃脱总统的尖刻幽默。他开玩笑说，影片《聚光灯》(Spotlight)是“自《星球大战》以来的最佳幻想片”，《聚光灯》讲述的是《波士顿环球报》对天主教神父性虐待做调查报道、向有权者问责的故事。奥巴马还逗媒体说，他们对特朗普“报道的篇幅与他作为候选人的严肃程度相称”。
Mr. Obama’s most personal jab at a journalist was aimed at Jake Tapper, the host of “The Lede” on CNN. He noted that several journalists had left the White House beat in recent years, and then added: “Jake Tapper left journalism to join CNN,” prompting Mr. Tapper to raise a wine glass.
奥巴马把对记者个人最有针对性的讽刺用在了CNN《导语》节目(The Lede)的主持人杰克·泰普尔(Jake Tapper)身上。奥巴马指出，近年来，一些记者已离开了白宫记者团，然后补充道：“杰克·泰普尔离开了新闻，加盟了CNN，”使得泰普尔举起了葡萄酒杯。
As has been his habit, Mr. Obama made fun of himself. He joked about his age — and the common maladies that afflict men over 50 — suggesting that he felt far older than he did when he became president.
正如他历来的习惯，奥巴马也拿自己打趣。他开自己的年龄、以及困扰50岁以上男性的常见病的玩笑，暗示他感觉比刚当总统时老多了。
“Hillary once questioned whether I’d be ready for a 3 a.m. phone call,” he recalled. “Now I’m awake anyway because I’ve got to go to the bathroom.”
“希拉里曾质疑我对凌晨3点打来的电话是否有准备，”他回忆说。“如今，我总在这个钟点醒来，因为我得去上厕所。”
He also noted that he had spent two days in London recently having lunch with Queen Elizabeth II, playing golf with Prime Minister David Cameron, and seeing a Shakespeare performance at the Globe Theater.
他还提到，他最近在伦敦花了两天时间，与英国女王伊丽莎白二世共进午餐，与首相戴维·卡梅伦一起打高尔夫球，还在环球剧院看了莎士比亚剧的表演。
“Just in case anyone is debating whether I’m black enough, that should settle the debate,” he said.
“万一还有人在争论我是否够黑的话，这该解决争议了吧，”他说。
Perhaps the most surprising moment of the president’s appearance came in a video produced by the White House showing Mr. Obama considering how to spend his time after leaving office.
也许奥巴马这次演出最令人惊讶的一个时刻是白宫制作的一段视频，视频显示奥巴马在考虑卸任后如何度过自己的时光。
In the video, Mr. Obama first turns to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. for advice. But then the president decides to call someone else for help — former House Speaker John A. Boehner, a Republican who was once a fierce adversary.
视频中，奥巴马先是向副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)征求意见。但后来，总统决定给另一个人打电话求救：前众议院议长、共和党人约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)，他曾是奥巴马的凶猛对手。
The video shows the president and Mr. Boehner sitting in the White House movie theater watching the ending of “Toy Story.” Mr. Boehner notes that he finally got the “grand bargain” that had eluded the two leaders during budget talks.
视频显示，奥巴马和博纳坐在白宫电影厅看《玩具总动员》的结尾部分。博纳说，他终于搞定了一个“大折扣”(grand bargain)，该双关语指的是这两位领导人在预算会谈中未能达成的“大妥协”。
“On a sweet Chevy Tahoe,” Mr. Boehner says, pulling out a pack of cigarettes and offering one to Mr. Obama, who has spent his presidency chewing nicotine gum to try to kick his smoking habit. The president’s eyes go wide.
“在一部惬意的雪佛兰Tahoe车上，”博纳边说、边拿出一包香烟，掏出一根递给奥巴马，奥巴马在担任总统期间，一直靠嚼尼古丁口香糖来试图戒烟。总统的眼睛睁大了。
Mr. Obama closed his appearance on a serious note, saluting Jason Rezaian, the Washington Post reporter who had been held in an Iranian prison, and who attended the dinner Saturday night. He promised that his administration would “continue to fight” for journalists held against their will.
奥巴马用严肃的话题结束了自己的演出，他向《华盛顿邮报》记者贾森·礼萨安(Jason Rezaian)致意，礼萨安曾被关押在伊朗监狱里，他出席了周六的晚宴。奥巴马承诺，他的政府将“继续争取”让被违心关押的记者获释。
And he praised the Washington press corps for trying to resist the commercial pressures to dumb down journalism, saying that “there are so many of you who are pushing against those trends.”
他称赞华盛顿记者团试图抵制降低新闻标准的商业压力的努力，他说，“你们中有这么多的人在反击这些趋势。”
He then offered just two words: “Obama out.” He dropped his microphone, and turned from the podium.
