SAN FRANCISCO — Ellen Pao spent the last few years spotlighting the technology industry’s lack of diversity, in court and beyond. Erica Baker caused a stir at Google when she started a spreadsheet last year for employees to share their salaries, highlighting the pay disparities between those of different genders doing the same job. Laura I. Gómez founded a start-up focused on improving diversity in the hiring process.
旧金山——鲍康如(Ellen Pao)这几年来一直致力于揭露科技行业缺乏多样性的情况，不论是在法庭上还是法庭外。埃里卡·贝克(Erica Baker)去年创建的一个让员工晒薪水的电子表格在谷歌(Google)引起了轰动，突显了工作内容相同但性别不同的员工之间的收入差距。劳拉·I·戈麦斯(Laura I. Gómez)办了一家初创公司，专注于提高招聘过程中的多样性。
Now the three — along with five other prominent Silicon Valley women from companies including Pinterest, Stripe and Slack — are starting an effort to collect and share data to help diversify the rank-and-file employees who make up tech companies. The nonprofit venture, called Project Include, was unveiled on Tuesday.
 现在，上述三人和另外五名来自Pinterest、Stripe、Slack等公司的知名硅谷女性，正着手搜集和分享数据，旨在促进科技公司普通员工队伍的多元化。她们的非盈利组织“容纳计划”(Project Include)于上周二亮相。
“The standard mantra for every company on diversity statistics is, ‘We’re not doing well, but we’re working on it,’” said Ms. Pao, a former venture capitalist at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, who sued the firm for accusations of gender discrimination and lost. “People don’t learn anything from that. Can you tell us what are you actually doing?”
“每家公司关于员工多元化统计数据的标配口头禅都是，‘我们做得不好，但我们正努力做好’。”曾经起诉前雇主风险投资公司凯鹏华盈(Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers)性别歧视，但却败诉的鲍康如说。“这句话没有任何内容。你能说说你们到底正在做什么吗？”
The group’s push is one of the more visible diversity efforts to come from women in Silicon Valley as tech companies grapple with criticism over the makeup of their work forces, which skew white and male. Over the last few years, tech entrepreneurs like Kimberly Bryant of Black Girls Code and Laura Weidman Powers of Code 2040 have promoted the inclusion of young women and minorities in early computer science education programs with their start-ups.
当偏爱白人和男性的硅谷公司忙于应付对员工构成展开的批评之际，许多更为引人注目的推动多元化的努力，都由该地区的女性主导，“容纳计划”正在做的事情只是其中一例。过去几年间，科技行业的一些创业者，比如“黑姑娘编程”(Black Girls Code)的金柏莉·布莱恩特(Kimberly Bryant)和Code 2040的劳拉·韦德曼·鲍尔斯(Laura Weidman Powers)，已经与其所在的初创组织或初创公司一起，推出旨在推动年轻女性和少数族裔接受计算机科学早期教育的项目。
Project Include stands out because of the number of well-known tech women in the group who have championed diversity and are now banding together. Ms. Pao, for one, was in the headlines last year for her court case against Kleiner Perkins, as well as her ouster as interim chief executive of Reddit, the online message board. Tracy Chou, a software engineer at Pinterest who is also a founding member of Project Include, has been one of the most vocal engineers concerning the lack of female peers.
“容纳计划”的抢眼之处在于，它聚集了科技行业里一直在倡导多元化的多位知名女性。例如鲍康如，由于和凯鹏华盈打官司，以及短暂出任网上讨论区Reddit首席执行官后遭到解雇，她在去年是新闻人物。“容纳计划”的另一名联合创始人是Pinterest的软件工程师周怡君(Tracy Chou)，她向来是工程师群体中对缺乏女性同行的问题最直言不讳的人之一。
Project Include’s other founders are Freada Kapor Klein, a partner at the Kapor Center and a longtime proponent of inclusion in tech, Susan Wu of the mobile payments start-up Stripe, Y-Vonne Hutchinson of the diversity consulting firm ReadySet and Bethanye McKinney Blount, a former executive at Reddit.
 “容纳计划”的其他创始人分别为卡普尔中心(Kapor Center)合伙人、一直倡导把科技行业变得更具包容性的弗里德·卡普尔·克莱因(Freada Kapor Klein)，移动支付初创公司Stripe的苏珊·吴(Susan Wu)， 多样性咨询公司ReadySet的伊冯娜·哈钦森(Y-Vonne Hutchinson)，Reddit前高管贝萨耶·麦金尼·布朗特(Bethanye McKinney Blount)。
All of them are working on Project Include outside of their respective workplaces, on their own time.
她们都会根据自己的时间，在各自的工作之余为“容纳计划”做事。
As part of Project Include, the group plans to extract commitments from tech companies to track the diversity of their work forces over time and eventually share that data with other start-ups. The effort will focus on start-ups that employ 25 to 1,000 workers, in the hope of spurring the companies to think about equality sooner rather than later. The project will also ask for participation from venture capital firms that advise and mentor the start-ups.
“容纳计划”的工作之一是让一些科技企业承诺在一段时间内追踪自身员工构成的多样性，然后将相关数据与其他初创企业分享。这一计划将聚焦雇员人数为25人到1000人的初创企业，希望能够推动它们及早考虑平等问题。该计划还会邀请为初创企业提供咨询和指导的风险投资公司参与其中。
Project Include aims to have 18 companies as part of its first cohort; a few have already signed up. The group will meet regularly for seven months to define and track specific metrics. At the end of that period, the group will publish an anonymized set of results to show the progress — or lack thereof — that the start-ups have made around diversity.
“容纳计划”当前的目标是说服18家企业作为第一批合作者加入进来；有几家已经签约。该组织会在七个月的时间里定期组织会议，定义和追踪具体指标。七个月过后，该组织会发布一份匿名的情况汇编，来展示这些公司在推动多样性方面取得——或者缺乏——进展的情况。
“If companies start early with diversity and inclusion, they don’t have to bolt it on later, which is much harder,” said Ms. Baker, the former Google engineer, who now works at Slack, a workplace collaboration software start-up.
“如果企业在创办之初就关注多样性和包容性问题，就不必等到日后更困难的时候再去解决了，”谷歌前工程师贝克说。她目前任职于企业协同办公软件初创企业Slack。
The group’s push is intended to cut through tech’s slow pace of change on diversity. Large companies, including Google, Facebook and Microsoft, have openly admitted their failings in creating diverse work forces, and some have started programs to move the needle. But that has not seemed to spur much movement in views on the issue.
“容纳计划”做这件事的目的，是快速推动进展一直颇为缓慢的科技行业人员构成多元化的进程。谷歌、Facebook 、微软(Microsoft)等大公司已经公开承认自己没能让员工队伍变得更为多元，一些公司已经启动了旨在促成改变的计划。但这似乎没能让人们看待这一问题的观念有太多进步。
In December, for instance, Michael Moritz, a partner at the venture capital firm Sequoia Capital, made headlines when he said in an interview that his firm — which had no female investment partners in the United States — would focus on hiring women but would not “lower its standards” to do so. He also said the firm was blind to gender and race.
例如，去年12月，风险投资公司红杉资本(Sequoia Capital)合伙人迈克尔·莫里茨(Michael Moritz)因为采访中的一番话而登上了媒体头条，他说公司——在美国没有女性投资合伙人——会致力于聘用女性，但不会为此“降低标准”。他还说他的公司无视性别和种族的界线。
“It is this incredibly self-serving mythology that we are the best and the brightest, and that the best ideas rise to the top and will get funded,” said Ms. Kapor Klein, noting there is plenty of data to show that minority access to tech programs and networks is worse than that of white males. “Despite an avalanche of rigorous data to the contrary, the belief in pure meritocracy persists.”
“就是这种极端自利的谬论，以为我们是最好、最聪明的，以为最佳的想法会脱颖而出，并得到资金，”卡普尔·克莱因说。她还指出，大量数据显示，少数族裔获取科技项目和人脉的渠道要比白人男性差。“对纯粹精英主义的信奉依然存在，尽管大量严谨的数据显示事实恰恰相反。”
