German chancellor Angela Merkel is facing increasing pressure at home after her justice minister warned that attackers identified as migrants in Cologne on New Year’s Eve were members of an organised crime network.
德国总理安格拉默克尔(Angela Merkel)在国内受到越来越大的压力，此前德国司法部长警告称，跨年夜在科隆参与群体性侵犯的移民是一个有组织犯罪网络的成员。
Heiko Maas said the mass sexual assaults and robberies that took place in the centre of the German city as thousands celebrated were co-ordinated by men using smart phones and social networks.
海科氠斯(Heiko Maas)表示，科隆市中心在成千上万人欢庆新年之际发生的群体性侵犯和抢劫案件，是由一些男子利用智能手机和社交网络策划的。
His claim came as Ms Merkel cancelled her regular trip to the Davos World Economic Forum, the global leaders’ gathering, this month in the wake of growing public outrage, mounting criticism of her refugee policy and worries over integrating migrants.
马斯作出这个表态之际，默克尔面对愈演愈烈的公众愤怒、针对她的难民政策的越来越响亮的批评，以及对于如何引导移民融入主流社会的担心，取消了本月前往达沃斯、像往年那样参加领导人云集的世界经济论坛(WEF)的计划。
More than 500 women have now filed criminal complaints over the new year attacks in Cologne, with 40 per cent alleging sexual assaults and many victims identifying their attackers as men of Arab or North African origin.
迄今已有超过500名女性就跨年夜科隆发生的侵犯事件提出刑事申诉，其中40%声称遭到性侵犯，许多受害者指认袭击者是阿拉伯或北非血统的男子。
In an interview with the Bild am Sonntag newspaper, Mr Maas said: “Nobody can tell me that this was not co-ordinated or prepared … When such a horde meets to commit criminal acts it looks like it was planned in some form.”
马斯在接受《周日图片报》(Bild am Sonntag)采访时表示：“如果有这么一群人聚集在一起，从事这样的犯罪行为，他们肯定有一定的组织方式。我绝对不相信这是一起没有经过策划或预谋的事件。”
His remarks are significant as he is one of the Social Democrat members of Ms Merkel’s Christian Democrat-led grand coalition, and his party has championed minority rights for years. Now, under public pressure for action, the SPD is joining the chancellor’s CDU party in proposing tougher laws on migrant criminals.
马斯的言论意义重大，因为他是默克尔的基民盟(CDU)所领导的大联合政府中的社民党(SDP)成员之一，他所在的政党多年倡导少数族裔的权利。现在，在公众要求采取行动的压力之下，社民党加入基民盟的行列，提议出台更严厉的法律打击移民中的犯罪分子。
At the weekend CDU leaders backed plans to extend judges’ powers to order deportations for migrants convicted of serious crimes. Ms Merkel said offenders “must feel the full force of the law”, adding that the plans were not only in the interests of citizens but of “the great majority of refugees”.
周末，基民盟领导人支持扩大法官权力的计划，授权法官下令驱逐被判犯有严重罪行的移民。默克尔表示，罪犯“必须感受到法律的全部力量”，并称相关计划不仅符合公民的利益，也符合“绝大多数难民”的利益。
