The latest report on the “global burden of disease” finds air pollution caused the premature deaths of 5.5 million people in 2013, with China just ahead of India in deaths and the two countries together accounting for more than half the global total. The findings were released Friday by scientists at the University of British Columbia and discussed today at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, in Washington.
关于“全球疾病负担”的最新报告发现，在2013年，空气污染导致550万人过早死亡，中国和印度加起来占了全球总数的一半以上，其中中国略高于印度。这项研究结果于上周五由不列颠哥伦比亚大学(University of British Columbia)的科学家发布。美国科学促进会(American Association for the Advancement of Science)今天在华盛顿的年度会议上对它进行了讨论。
In China most deaths were urban and the result of pollution from coal-burning power plants. In India, the main danger is indoor cooking and heating fires fueled by dried dung or firewood. Here’s more on the work from the University of British Columbia, which teamed up on the study with the nonprofit Health Effects Institute:
在中国，大多数死亡案例发生在城市，死因是燃煤电厂导致的污染。而在印度，主要危险是在室内燃料干牛粪或木柴用以烹饪和取暖。这项研究由不列颠哥伦比亚大学和非营利性组织健康影响研究所(Health Effects Institute)联合进行，内容还包括：
About 1.6 million people died of air pollution in China and 1.4 million died in India in 2013.
在2013年，中国有大约160万人死于空气污染，印度有140万。
In China, burning coal is the biggest contributor to poor air quality. Qiao Ma, a PhD student at the School of Environment, Tsinghua University in Beijing, China, found that outdoor air pollution from coal alone caused an estimated 366,000 deaths in China in 2013.
在中国，烧煤是空气污染的最大元凶。北京清华大学环境专业博士生马桥（音）发现，2013年，仅燃煤造成的室外空气污染就在中国导致约36.6万人死亡。
Ma also calculated the expected number of premature deaths in China in the future if the country meets its current targets to restrict coal combustion and emissions through a combination of energy policies and pollution controls. She found that air pollution will cause anywhere from 990,000 to 1.3 million premature deaths in 2030 unless even more ambitious targets are introduced.
马桥还计算了如果中国通过能源政策和污染控制方式限制了煤燃烧和排放，达到其当前目标，那么在未来中国可能会有多少人过早死亡。她发现，如果不制定更加严格的目标，那么在2030年，空气污染造成过早死亡人数将在99万到130万人之间。
“Our study highlights the urgent need for even more aggressive strategies to reduce emissions from coal and from other sectors,” said Ma.
“我们的研究突显了采取更加积极的策略，减少燃煤排放和其它排放的迫切性，”马桥说。
In India, a major contributor to poor air quality is the practice of burning wood, dung and similar sources of biomass for cooking and heating. Millions of families, among the poorest in India, are regularly exposed to high levels of particulate matter in their own homes.
在印度，使用木柴、牛粪及类似生物质来烹饪和取暖是空气污染的一大成因。在印度最贫穷的人口中，数以百万计的家庭经常在自己家中接触到高水平的颗粒物。
“India needs a three-pronged mitigation approach to address industrial coal burning, open burning for agriculture, and household air pollution sources,” said Chandra Venkataraman, professor of Chemical Engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, in Mumbai, India.
“印度需要三管齐下的纾解方案，来解决工业燃煤、露天焚烧农业秸秆，家庭空气污染来源问题，”印度理工学院孟买分校(Indian Institute of Technology Bombay)的化学工程教授钱德拉·文卡塔拉曼(Chandra Venkataraman)说。
