 Apple has defeated a US government attempt to force it to unlock an iPhone as part of a criminal investigation into a drugs case, handing it an important victory in the first test case on the issue.
 苹果(Apple)挫败了美国政府强迫其解锁一部iPhone的企图，在这类问题的首个判例中取得了重要胜利。解锁这部iPhone是对一桩毒品案展开的刑事调查的一部分。
 The decision, by a federal judge in New York, comes two weeks after Apple sought a showdown with the FBI over a separate demand in California requiring it to break into an iPhone that had belonged to one of the shooters in the San Bernardino massacre.
 这项判决是由纽约一名联邦法官作出的。而两周前，苹果试图与美国联邦调查局(FBI)围绕加州的另一项要求一决雌雄，那项要求是要苹果破解圣贝纳迪诺枪击案凶手的iPhone。
 In a 50-page ruling, judge James Orenstein backed some of the arguments that Apple has also made in its California defence. He also attacked the US government over what he described as an attempt to pre-empt Congress by getting the courts to expand its law enforcement powers.
 法官詹姆斯•奥伦斯坦(James Orenstein)在长达50页的判决书中对苹果的主张予以了支持，而其中一些主张也出现在苹果在加州那桩案子的自辩中。奥伦斯坦法官还抨击了美国政府，称其企图跳过国会、让法院来扩展其执法权。
 The decision is set to lend important moral support to Apple in its highly public fight with the government over the San Bernardino case.
 在苹果与美国政府围绕圣贝纳迪诺枪击案上演的高度公开的斗争中，纽约的这项判决将为前者提供重要的道德支持。
 However, the court in California has already moved further than the New York judge by issuing an order against the company, putting it on the defensive as it tries to have the demand overturned.
 不过，加州法院走得比纽约法官要远，它向苹果发布了一道法庭令，迫使苹果采取守势。苹果眼下正尝试推翻那项要求。
 A senior Apple executive, speaking on a background basis, claimed the company had even stronger arguments on its side in California. The New York case involved an older version of the iPhone operating system, which would have made it easy for Apple to help the FBI without being forced to “hack” its own device or put in a back door — the things that it has said make the demands in the San Bernardino request insupportable.
 一名要求匿名的苹果高管表示，苹果在加州案中的论据比纽约案更加站得住脚。纽约案涉及的是旧版iPhone操作系统，该系统令苹果很容易帮助FBI，而不用被迫“侵入”自己的设备、或设立一扇后门——苹果已表示，正是后面这类事情让圣贝纳迪诺枪击案协助调查请求中所提的要求变得不可接受。
