It's a classic case of being in the right place at the right time. A young street seller oblivious to the scene ahead, her wares perched atop her head, photobombed a shoot and in that split second her life changed forever.
这是一个“在对的时间地点遇到对的人”的经典案例。头上顶着商品的年轻路边小贩误入别人的镜头却浑然不知，但她的人生却因这个瞬间而永远改变了。
Jumoke Orisaguna is a mother of two who used to walk the streets of Lagos selling bread. Originally a hairstylist from Osun State, south west Nigeria, she was struggling to make ends meet, and left her husband and two children in their home town to become a street vendor in the economic capital.
朱默克·奥里萨古纳是两个孩子的母亲，常常在尼日利亚首都拉各斯的街道叫卖面包。她早先在尼日利亚西南部的奥孙州做过美发师，因为入不敷出，不得不离开丈夫和孩子，背井离乡，来到经济之都拉各斯干起了街边摊。
Working from 2:30pm to 11:00pm selling bread, Jumoke would make less than $20 each day --with a profit of around $1.
她每天从下午2点半开始卖面包，一直卖到晚上11点，每天最多可以赚20美元。除去成本也就剩大约一美元。
Now she's about to become a top model; signed to a modeling agency and gaining international fame and prominence.
现在，她即将成为一名顶级模特。她已经和一家模特经纪公司签约，开始蜚声国际。
Renowned Nigerian photographer TY Bello is behind the change in Jumoke's fortunes. TY was photographing UK popstar Tinie Tempah when Jumoke walked into shot.
尼日利亚著名摄影师贝罗就是那个改变朱默克命运的人。当时贝罗正在为英国说唱歌手泰尼·坦普拍摄，恰巧朱默克误入镜头。
"She seemed a little confused," says Bello. "Some people were asking her to walk past really quickly, others were asking her to stay, she was just in limbo. I said 'is it ok to take your photograph?' And she nodded ok."
“她看起来有点不知所措，”贝罗说。“有人叫她赶快离开镜头，有人请她待在原地，她愣住了。于是我说，可以给你拍照吗？她点了点头同意了。”
"I didn't think I made a great image," Bello says, but once she posted the shots on social media, interest in Jumoke exploded.
贝罗说：“我当时并没觉得给她拍的有多棒，但当她在社交媒体上发布了自己的照片后，反响很不错。”
"When the photographs landed for the first time on social media, everyone immediately thought she was a model," Bello explains.
“照片首次出现在社交媒体上时，每个人的第一反应都以为她是个模特，”贝罗解释称。
"No one believed she just walked past. It occurred to me that if everyone thought she should be a model then maybe she should be one, then the search for her began."
“没有人会想到她只是镜头的一个过客。这也让我突然觉得，如果每个人都觉得她应该是个模特，那或许她真的可以成为一个模特。之后我们就开始找她。”
A contract with Few Models followed and soon Jumoke's face will appear on billboards after landing a lucrative contract.
在和“菲尤模特公司”签约后，朱默克不久就接到了收益丰厚的单子，她的面孔也开始出现在广告牌上。
"I never expected this would ever happen to me," says the erstwhile bread seller. "My friends have told me they saw me on the TV and they are really happy. My parents cannot believe their own child can become such a success. They are all so happy."
“我从来没想到这种事会发生在我身上，”这位曾经的面包女郎说道。“我的朋友告诉我他们很高兴能在电视上看到我。我的父母不敢相信他们的孩子会取得这样的成功，他们非常高兴。”
Now the mum of two has been given a scholarship to complete her education, and a bank has offered to pay for schooling for her two children, aged five and one, until university age.
现在，这位两个孩子的母亲已经得到了一笔奖学金，可以完成她的学业。一家银行也表示愿意支付她两个孩子（一个5岁，另一个1岁）直到大学的费用。
"Everyone connected with the story because everybody has dreams," argues Bello. "This is a very tough time in my country... Everyone is looking for that magical break... I think this is definitely divine because the way people have connected with it is just phenomenal. It's a phenomenal story."
“每个人对这样的故事都会有所感触，因为每个人都有梦想，”贝罗说。“我的国家正在经历一段非常困难的时期……每个人都在寻找破茧而出的突破口……我觉得这件事的确挺神奇的，参与其中的人都会觉得它不可思议。堪称奇迹。”
