Maria Sharapova, who has long been the world's richest female athlete, will be suspended from tennis after she admitted to failing a drug test at the Australian Open in January.
玛利亚·莎拉波娃日前承认自己未通过一月份澳网公开赛的药检，并将面临禁赛。长久以来，莎拉波娃一直是全世界最富有的女性运动员。
A sombre looking Sharapova, speaking at a press conference in Los Angeles Monday, said she'd been taking the drug, meldonium, since 2006 and didn't realize it was declared a banned substance by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) at the start of 2016.
周一，莎拉波娃在洛杉矶举行媒体发布会，神情严肃地坦白自己从2006年开始便服用药物米屈肼，自己并没有意识到2016年初世界反兴奋剂机构已将米屈肼列为违禁药物。
The International Tennis Federation, about an hour after her admission, then said on its website that the 28-year old would be provisionally banned from March 12 "pending determination of the case." The usual penalty for first-time offenders is two years.
在她坦诚后的一个小时，国际网球联合会在官网上宣布这位28岁的女运动员从3月12日起将被暂时禁赛，禁赛时长待定。一般来说，对初犯者的惩罚是禁赛两年。
The failed drug test came on January 26—after Sharapova lost to Serena Williams in the quarterfinals—and she was charged with an anti-doping violation on March 2, the governing body additionally said.
据主管机构称，莎拉波娃在1月26日未能通过药物检测，当时她刚在四分之一决赛中输给了赛雷纳·威廉姆斯。3月2日莎拉波娃受到违反反兴奋剂条令的指控。
There was much speculation that Sharapova's Monday briefing with reporters centered on retirement plans following an increasing number of injuries, but the failed test was a bigger bombshell. And it came in the wake of match-fixing allegations that rocked tennis in Melbourne.
很多人猜测随着莎拉波娃身体损伤的增加，她在周一的新闻发布会内容将以自己的退休计划为中心，但是药检失败却是一个更大的爆炸性新闻。在假球指控发生后不久，这一消息再次轰动了墨尔本网球界。
"A few days ago I received a letter from the (International Tennis Federation) that I failed a drug test at the Australian Open," the five-time grand slam winner said in the press conference that was streamed live on Sharapova's website. "I did fail the test and take full responsibility for it.
五次大满贯得主莎拉波娃在新闻发布会上表示：“几天前，我收到了一封来自国际网球联合会的信件，信中说，我在澳大利亚网球公开赛的药检没有通过。”莎拉波娃的官网直播了这场新闻发布会。“我的确药检失败，我会负全部责任。”
"For the past 10 years I have been given a medicine called mildronate by my doctor, my family doctor, and a few days ago after I received the ITF letter I found out that it also has another name, meldonium, which I did not know.
“过去十年里， 我的家庭主治医生给我开了个叫作米屈肼的药物，就在前些天我收到了那封来自国际网球联合会的信件，那时才发现它还有另外一个我不知道的名字——美度铵。
"It's very important for you to understand for 10 years this medicine was not on WADA's banned list and I had been legally taking the medicine for the past 10 years. But on January 1 the rules had changed and meldonium became a prohibited substance, which I had not known."
“有一点你们必须知道，在过去的十年里这种药物并未被列入世界反兴奋剂机构禁用名单之中，我就这样合法服用了这种药物达十年之久。但就在今年1月1日，规则改变了，美度铵成了违禁药物，而这一新规定我之前并不知晓。”
Sharapova would later say she began taking the medication, which can be used to treat heart issues, after irregular EKGs and being deficient in magnesium. Her family also has a history of diabetes, she added.
莎拉波娃后来说，她是因为心律不齐且体内缺镁，才开始服用米屈肼的，米屈肼可以用来治疗心脏疾病。她补充说，她的家族还有糖尿病史。
Her revelation came on the same day that Russia's Olympic ice dance gold medalist Ekaterina Bobrova said she failed a doping test for the same drug.
莎拉波娃公布这一消息当天，俄罗斯奥运会冰舞金牌得主叶卡捷琳娜·波布洛娃表示，她也因为米屈肼而未通过药检。
