Like Christmas, Easter is one of the times of year when parents eagerly plans surprises for their children.
和圣诞节一样，复活节是父母热切地为孩子们制造惊喜的节日。
Eggs are hidden, treats baked and stories of the Easter Bunny told. But in some cases, not everything goes to plan.
彩蛋藏好了，美味糕点烤好了，复活节兔子的故事也讲过了。但是，有时候，事情并不像计划的那样顺利。
Some parents have taken to social media to share their 'Easter fails', including many that ended with children crying.
一些父母通过社交媒体分享他们的“复活节败笔”，其中好多“杰作”以吓哭孩子收场。
One mother left her children alone to decorate eggs, only to come back and find the word 'fart' written across them.
一位妈妈让孩子一个人独自装饰彩蛋，回来时却发现鸡蛋上写着大大的“屁”字。
Mum Krista Thomsen, from Seattle, shared a photo of the results of her attempt at egg decorating attempt with her son, who had split dye all over the carpet.
来自西雅图的妈妈克里斯塔·汤姆森分享了一张她尝试与儿子一起装饰彩蛋的照片，照片上她的儿子把染料洒得整个地毯都是。
Others accidentally left chocolate hidden too long and ended up with melted eggs or bunnies that didn't look to appealing anymore.
还有一些家长不小心把巧克力藏太久了，结果巧克力蛋和巧克力兔子都融化了，完全没有造型可言。
Another parent carefully hid Easter eggs for her child to hunt, only to find the family pet went in search of treats before her daughter could.
还有一个妈妈很认真地藏好了复活节彩蛋，准备让她的孩子去寻找，但是，还没等自己的女儿开始找，家里的宠物早已捷足先登。
'The dogs did the Easter egg hunt and went through Charlotte's Easter basket while we were at church. They found every single egg and ate every single piece of candy,' Traci Lafrenz wrote on Instagram.
“当我们还在教堂的时候，狗狗们便开始了复活节彩蛋探险并且‘拆封’了夏洛特的复活节篮子。它们找到了所有的巧克力蛋，吃光了每一颗糖果，”特拉茜·拉夫仁茨在Instagram上写道。
A couple of posts to the #easterfail hashtag on Instagram showed schools and restaurants inadvertently scaring children by displaying what appeared to be decapitated Easter bunny heads.
Instagram上在“复活节败笔”主题标签下的几个贴子提到学校和餐馆展示的看上去像被斩首的复活节兔子头在无意中吓到了孩子。
Other fails were a little bit ruder. One Instagram user shared a screenshot of a 'walking bunny balloon' that was well endowed in the grown area.
另一些败笔则更为粗鲁。一位Instagram用户分享了一个屏幕截图：一只少儿不宜的“行走的兔子气球”。
Another shared a photo of an Easter bunny who had put their costume on backwards, resulting in the tail appearing in an inappropriate spot.
另一个用户分享了一张照片——一个人把复活节兔子的衣服前后穿反了，导致兔子的尾巴出现在了不该出现的位置。
The hashtag #easterfail has more than 2,000 posts on Instagram.
在Instagram上，“复活节败笔”话题标签下已有2000多条贴子。
