 Banks worldwide using the Swift global financial transaction system havebeen ordered to install an urgent software upgrade as cyber security expertswarned of a repeat of February’s raid on the Bangladesh central bank, one ofthe biggest bank robberies in history.
 世界各地使用环球银行金融电信协会(SWIFT)支付网络的银行被要求进行一次紧急软件升级。网络安全专家警告称，史上最大的银行抢劫案之一、2月份针对孟加拉国央行的攻击可能重演。
 Swift, which has about 11,000 bank members, said yesterday that it hadordered clients using its Alliance Access interface software to install amandatory upgrade after attackers “successfully compromised the banks’ ownenvironments” in order to send messages.
 拥有大约1.1万银行会员的SWIFT昨日表示，已指示使用其AllianceAccess接口软件的客户安装一个强制性升级，此前攻击者“成功危及银行自身运行环境”，以发送指令。
 Meanwhile, FireEye a cyber security group hired for the probe in Dhaka,said that it had “observed activity in other financial services organisations that islikely by the same threat actor behind the cyber attack on Bangladesh Bank”.
 同时，受聘调查孟加拉国央行被黑事件的网络安全公司FireEye表示，它已经“在其他金融服务机构观察到了活动，很可能出自对孟加拉国央行发起网络攻击的同一个威胁源”。
 The FireEye statement, which one person in the cyber security sectorsaid amounted to a warning of a criminal “campaign” targeting banks, followedan admission by Swift on Monday that it was aware of malicious softwaredesigned to prevent banks spotting fraudulent transactions.
 FireEye作出这一声明之前，SWIFT周一承认，它知道某种恶意软件旨在防止银行察觉欺诈交易。网络安全界的一名人士表示，FireEye的声明相当于警告，犯罪分子发起了一波针对银行的攻势。
 Swift is a global messaging network used by banks and other financialfirms across the world to send payment instructions and has become a vital partof the global financial architecture.
 SWIFT是一个全球性的电文传递网络，被世界各地的银行和其他金融机构用来发送支付指令，它已成为全球金融体系的重要组成部分。
 “Central banks have been looking at cyber crime, first at their bankingsector and more recently with regard to their own websites,” said Nick Carver,publisher of Central Banking Publications. “But real-time gross settlementsystems and Swift are in a different league. Swift is the nervous system ofinternational payments. So central banks will be very concerned by thesefindings.”
 “各国央行一直在关注网络犯罪，最初把目光投向其国内的银行业，近来又开始关注自己的网站，”《央行杂志》(Central Banking Publications)出版人尼克•卡佛(Nick Carver)表示。“但是，实时全额结算系统和SWIFT处在一个不同的层面。SWIFT是国际支付的神经系统。因此，这些发现将让各国央行非常担忧。”
 In an audacious weekend raid that sent tremors through the world’s banks, thehackers sent 35 fake orders from Bangladesh Bank via Swift to the central bank’s account atthe Federal Reserve in New York.
 在一个周末发起的震撼全球银行业的大胆攻击中，黑客假冒孟加拉国央行，通过SWIFT向这家央行在纽约联储(New York Fed)开设的账户发送了35个假指令。
 The transfers totalled $951m, although the thieves made off with only$81m. They were sent in four batches to accounts in the Philippines after oneSri Lanka order was questioned by a suspicious correspondent bank and the NewYork Fed decided for undisclosed reasons not to process the other 30 orders.
 转账总额为9.51亿美元，窃贼得手8100万美元。它们分四笔被发往菲律宾的账户，但是发往斯里兰卡的一笔款项引起一家警惕性较高的代理行提出质疑，之后纽约联储决定不处理另外30个指令，但没有透露原因。
 On Monday the threat research blog of BAE Systems said that it believedthat it had identified custom malware, malicious software, linked to theBangladesh heist.
 周一，BAE系统公司(BAESystems)在其威胁研究博客上表示，它相信自己已经识别出了与孟加拉国央行被黑事件相关的恶意软件。
 It appeared to be part of an attack “toolkit”and wouldbe used to cover the attackers’tracks as they sent forged payment instructions.
 它似乎是一个攻击“工具包”的一部分，被用于掩盖攻击者的作案痕迹，使他们能够发送假冒的付款指令而不被发现。
 BAE researcher Sergei Shevchenko said the malware registered itself as aservice and operated in an environment running Swift’s AllianceAccess software suite, allowing transactions to be deleted and records changed.
 BAE研究员谢尔盖•舍甫琴科(SergeiShevchenko)表示，该恶意软件把自己登记为一个服务，在运行SWIFT的Alliance Access软件包的环境中活动，使交易可被删除，记录可被变更。
