China appears to be building radar installations on contested reefs in the southern part of the South China Sea, according to satellite images released by a US think-tank, in a move that could significantly boost Beijing’s surveillance capabilities.
一家美国智库公布的卫星图像显示，中国似乎正在位于南中国海南部的争议岛礁上布置雷达装置，此举可能显著提高北京方面的监视能力。
The Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies late on Monday published photographs that it said showed the development of high-frequency radar towers on Cuarteron Reef and several other Chinese-controlled features in the Spratly Islands.
位于华盛顿的战略与国际问题研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)周一晚间发布图片，称这些图片显示在位于斯普拉特利群岛（Spratly Islands，中国称南沙群岛）的华阳礁(Cuarteron Reef)及其他几个中国控制的地物上，出现了高频雷达塔。
It said that while Beijing’s recent construction of airstrips and deployment of anti-aircraft missiles in the South China Sea had caused concern, the apparent radar installations “will prove equally important to Beijing’s long-term strategy” because they “could significantly change the operational landscape in the South China Sea”.
该中心表示虽然最近北京方面在南中国海建设简易机场、部署防空导弹已引起关注，但图片中的雷达装置“将证明对于北京的长期战略同样重要”，因为它们“可能显著地改变南中国海的军事格局。”
In its analysis of the images from Cuarteron Reef, CSIS said that “two probable radar towers have been built on the northern portion of the feature, and a number of 65ft (20m) poles have been erected across a large section of the southern portion”.
战略与国际问题研究中心对华阳礁图像分析后表示，“在该地物的北部已建成两座貌似雷达塔，而在南部大片地区树立起了许多65英尺（20米）高的杆子。”
Euan Graham, a security analyst at Sydney think-tank the Lowy Institute, said that as tensions grow between China and the US, as well as other claimants, the development of radar in the Spratlys would “change the balance” by giving Beijing a “surveillance capability in the southern part of the South China Sea”.
悉尼智库洛伊国际政策研究所(Lowy Institute)的安全分析师尤安格雷厄姆(Euan Graham)表示，随着中国与美国和其他声索国之间紧张升级，在南沙群岛布置雷达将赋予北京“对南中国海南部的监视能力”，这会“改变平衡”。
He said that from China’s perspective these islands would have a “natural function as listening posts to monitor air and surface traffic”, and that Beijing would consider the deployment of radar a “low-risk, non-provocative step”.
他表示从中国角度来看，这些岛屿具备“监听站的天然功能，可以监视空中和海面交通”，北京方面会认为部署雷达是“低风险，没有挑衅性的一步”。
News of the possible radar development comes as Wang Yi, China’s foreign minister, travels to the US to meet John Kerry, the secretary of state.
在中国可能部署雷达的新闻出现之时，中国外长王毅正前往美国会见美国国务卿约翰克里(John Kerry)。
A spokesman for the state department said on Monday that the US government would continue to “press China to de-escalate and to stop its militarisation”.
美国国务院发言人在周一表示，美国政府将继续“敦促中国逐步降级紧张局势，并停止军事化。”
Beijing defended its recent activities in comments made before the images of the purported radar facilities were published.
在雷达装置传闻发布以前，北京方面曾发表言论为近期自己的活动辩护。
“China’s deployment of limited defence facilities on its own territory is its exercise of self-defence right to which a sovereign state is entitled under international law,” said a foreign ministry spokesman. “It has nothing to do with militarisation.”
