The US government has frozen the assets of a former top Japanese mafia boss, as Washington steps up efforts to clamp down on criminal activities around the world by the Yakuza and related groups.
美国政府冻结了日本黑帮组织山口组(Yamaguchi-gumi)前重要头目后藤忠正(Tadamasa Goto)的资产，此际美国政府正加大努力，打击日本黑帮及其相关组织的犯罪活动。
The Treasury on Wednesday took action against Tadamasa Goto, a former top boss in the powerful Yamaguchi-gumi crime syndicate, making him the 14th person to be targeted since President Barack Obama named the Yakuza as a significant transnational criminal organisation in 2011.
美国财政部周三针对后藤忠正采取措施，他是自美国总统巴拉克攠巴马(Barack Obama)于2011年将日本山口组列为一个重要的跨国犯罪组织以来，打击的第14个人。
“Tadamasa Goto possesses deep ties to the Yakuza and has been instrumental to its criminal operations around the world,” said John Smith, acting head of the Office of Foreign Assets Control. “Today’s action denies Goto access to the US financial system and demonstrates our resolve to aggressively combat transnational criminal organisations and their supporters.”
“后藤忠正与山口组联系密切，一直在该组织的全球犯罪活动中发挥着重要作用，”美国财政部海外资产控制办公室(Office of Foreign Assets Control)代理负责人约翰史密斯(John Smith)表示，“今日的措施是禁止后藤忠正利用美国金融体系，这显示出我们积极打击跨国犯罪组织及其支持者的决心。”
While Mr Goto was a notorious boss in Japan, he attracted attention in the US after it emerged that he was given a liver transplant at a California hospital in 2001 despite being reportedly on a list of people barred from entering the US. Some media have reported that Mr Goto was allowed to enter because he was providing information to the FBI. He later donated $100,000 to the hospital.
尽管后藤忠正在日本臭名昭著，但他引起美国注意是源于有消息称，他于2001年在加州一家医院接受了肝移植手术，据报道，当时他在禁止进入美国的人员名单上。一些媒体报道称，后藤忠正被允许进入美国的原因是他向美国联邦调查局(FBI)提供了信息。他后来向这家医院捐款10万美元。
The Treasury said Mr Goto had joined the Yakuza as a member of the Inagawa-kai before later joining the Yamaguchi-gumi. He later branched out and became the head of his own faction called the Goto-gumi. But he moved to Cambodia after he was expelled from the Yamaguchi-gumi in 2008.
美国财政部表示，后藤忠正以稻川会(Inagawa-kai)成员的身份加入日本黑帮，后来加入山口组(Yamaguchi-gumi)。他随后组建了自己的分支后藤组(Goto-gumi)。他在2008年被山口组开除后移居柬埔寨。
“Despite his retirement from mob life, Yakuza figure Tadamasa Goto reportedly still associates with numerous gang-tainted companies that he utilises to facilitate his legitimate and illicit business activities,” said the Treasury. “He continues to support the Yamaguchi-gumi and remnants of his semi-defunct Goto-gumi by laundering their funds between Japan and Cambodia.”
“尽管后藤忠正已退出黑社会，但据报道，他仍与很多与黑社会有关系的公司来往，他利用这些公司协助他的合法和非法业务活动，”美国财政部表示，“通过在日本和柬埔寨之间洗钱，他继续支持山口组以及他自己的半倒闭的后藤组。”
In announcing the move against Mr Goto, the Treasury said that Yakuza groups were involved in drug trafficking and money laundering in the US.
在宣布冻结后藤忠正的财产时，美国财政部表示，日本黑帮组织在美国从事毒品交易和洗钱活动。
