 The FBI has abandoned its attempt to force Apple to help it break into the San Bernardino shooter’s iPhone, after it found another way to access the device’s contents without the company’s help.
 美国联邦调查局(FBI)放弃了迫使苹果(Apple)帮它解锁圣贝纳迪诺枪击案凶手iPhone的企图，原因是它找到了别的办法、无需苹果帮忙就能访问这部移动设备的内容。
 The move ends a high-stakes stand-off between the iPhone maker and the US government but in a statement, the Department of Justice left open the door to future legal clashes with Silicon Valley over encryption and data security.
 此举为这家iPhone制造商与美国政府之间利害攸关的对峙画上了句号。不过，在一份声明中，美国司法部(DoJ)并未排除未来与硅谷在加密和数据安全问题上发生法律冲突的可能性。
 On Monday afternoon, Judge Sheri Pym of the Central District of California granted the DoJ’s request to vacate the court order she granted a month and a half ago.
 周一下午，美国加利福尼亚中区(Central District of California)法院的谢里•皮姆法官(Judge Sheri Pym)批准了美国司法部申请撤销她一个半月前授予的法庭令的请求。
 The order had required Apple to write new software that would prevent the iPhone from wiping its contents as investigators made repeated attempts to guess the passcode that locked away its contents.
 该法庭令要求苹果编写新的软件，以便在调查人员反复尝试猜出上述iPhone的密码、以访问其内容时，能防止该手机抹去其上存储的内容。
 The device in question was used by Syed Rizwan Farook, who along with his wife Tashfeen Malik killed 14 people in San Bernardino, California, last December.
 此案所涉的这部手机曾被赛义德•里兹万•法鲁克(Syed Rizwan Farook)使用。去年12月，他与妻子塔什费恩•马利克(Tashfeen Malik)在加州圣贝纳迪诺杀害了14个人。
 Apple had vigorously resisted the order, claiming that it would involve creating a “back door” that would weaken the security and privacy of all iPhone owners. Many Silicon Valley companies had rallied behind Apple as it contested the legal and constitutional basis for the demand.
 苹果坚决抵制这一法庭令，称这是在要求它创建一个会损害所有iPhone用户安全和隐私的“后门”。在苹果驳斥这一要求的法律和宪法依据时，许多硅谷企业纷纷对苹果予以支持。
 A week ago, on the eve of a hearing before Judge Pym to debate the case, the government unexpectedly asked for the courtroom session to be delayed for up to two weeks.
 一周前，就在皮姆法官将举行听证会就此案展开辩论的前夜，美国政府出人意料地要求将庭审推迟最多两周。
 Despite initially arguing that the “assistance sought can only be provided by Apple”, the FBI said that an outside party had approached it with a potential way to break into the device. The unnamed group was prompted to come forward by the huge publicity surrounding the case, it said.
 尽管FBI最初辩称“只有苹果才能提供（我们）所寻求的帮助”，但该局后来表示，一家第三方机构与它进行了接触，该机构拥有破解这部手机的可能手段。FBI称，这家不具名机构是因此案引发的巨大轰动而决定站出来的。
 Little more than a week later, the unspecified new technique proved successful.
 过了大约一周的时间，这种不明新技术被证明取得了成功。
 “The government has now successfully accessed the data stored on Farook’s iPhone and therefore no longer requires the assistance from Apple” that had been mandated by February’s court order, the government wrote in a filing on Monday.
 美国政府在周一提交的一份文件中写道：“政府现已成功访问了法鲁克iPhone上存储的数据，因此不再要求苹果提供援助。”2月份的那项法庭令命令苹果提供这种援助。
 The DoJ added in a statement that the FBI was “currently reviewing the information on the phone”, which investigators hope might provide clues to the couple’s links to terrorist groups.
 美国司法部在一份声明中补充称，FBI“正在审查这部手机上的信息”。调查人员希望，这些信息或许能提供有关法鲁克夫妇与恐怖组织之间联系的线索。
