The US proposed a sharp tightening of international sanctions on North Korea on Thursday after reaching an agreement with China on a new resolution at the UN.
在与中国就制裁朝鲜的联合国新决议达成一致后，美国在周四提议大幅收紧对朝国际制裁。
US officials said new sanctions, which would include a ban on aviation fuel exports, inspections of cargo going in and out of the country and restrictions on the country’s banks, represented the toughest measures North Korea would face in two decades.
新的制裁将包括禁止航空燃油出口、对进出朝鲜的货物进行检查、以及对朝鲜的银行加以限制。美国官员表示，这些新制裁是朝鲜在未来20年里将面临的最严厉措施。
The US also said the UN resolution would also limit and in some cases ban North Korean exports of coal, iron, gold and titanium — a set of restrictions that has the potential to significantly restrict Chinese trade with its ally.
美国还表示，这份联合国决议还将限制并在某些情况下禁止朝鲜出口煤、铁、金、钛——这组限制措施可能会对中国与其盟国朝鲜的贸易构成显著限制。
Samantha Power, the US ambassador at the UN, said that if adopted, the sanctions would “send an unambiguous and unyielding message” to North Korea that “we will not accept your proliferation”.
美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎•鲍尔(Samantha Power)表示，如果获得通过，这些新制裁将向朝鲜“传递出一个明确而坚决的信息，即我们不会认可你的核扩散。”
The new UN resolution, which was presented to the Security Council on Thursday afternoon and which could be voted on in the next few days, represent Washington’s response to the January nuclear test and the rocket launch North Korea conducted earlier this month.
这份新的联合国决议是美国政府对朝鲜在1月进行核试验、以及在本月早些时候发射火箭作出的回应。决议草案已在周四下午呈交联合国安理会(UN Security Council)，可能会在未来几天里付诸表决。
China signed on to the proposed sanctions after seven weeks of intense bilateral negotiations with the US that at times exposed the very different views in Beijing and Washington about how to deal with North Korea’s nuclear programme.
在与美国进行了7周的紧张双边谈判后，中国与美国就拟议的制裁达成了一致。这次谈判不时暴露出，中美两国在如何应对朝鲜核计划方面存在很大的意见分歧。
However, although North Korea’s economy depends on trade with China, Pyongyang conducted the latest nuclear test and rocket launch despite repeated pleas from Beijing to avoid such moves.
不过，尽管朝鲜经济依赖对华贸易，平壤方面还是进行了最新的核试验和火箭发射，无视北京方面多次发出的避免此类举动的呼吁。
North Korea experts said that the draft resolution represented a potentially significant escalation of economic pressure on Pyongyang, but pointed out that previous efforts to use sanctions had foundered in part because of China’s reluctance to enforce some of the measures.
朝鲜问题专家表示，新决议草案意味着，朝鲜政府承受的经济压力可能会显著升级。但专家们也指出，以往的制裁努力之所以没能成功，部分是因为中国不愿执行某些措施。
Bruce Klingner, a former intelligence official now at the Heritage Foundation in Washington, said that the restrictions on North Korean exports of resources “could be a significant ratcheting up of pressure”, raising the question about whether “China is severing or severely curtailing its economic trade with North Korea”.
前美国情报官员、现供职于华盛顿传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)的布鲁斯•克林纳(Bruce Klingner)表示，限制朝鲜出口资源“可能意味着显著提升（对朝）压力”，那么“中国是否会切断或大幅缩减与朝鲜的经贸往来”？
\However, he added that in the past “China has been lax in enforcing its own export rules, let alone UN resolutions” and had “repeatedly turned a blind eye to North Korean proliferation occurring on its soil”.
但他接着说，以往“中国连它自己的出口规定都没严格执行过，就更别提联合国的决议了”，而且“对朝鲜国内发生的核扩散一再视而不见”。
Ms Power said the resolution would impose financial sanctions on North Korean banks and assets and would ban exports of small arms and other conventional weapons. The ban on aviation fuel would include rocket fuel, she said.
鲍尔表示，新决议将涉及对朝鲜的银行和资产施以金融制裁，并将禁止轻武器和其他常规武器的出口。她说，航空燃油禁令将涵盖火箭燃料。
Cargo going in and out of North Korea would be subject to “mandatory inspection”, she said. However it was unclear if that involved the UN allowing the US and other navies to board ships entering the country’s ports.
她还表示，进出朝鲜的货物要接受“强制检查”。不过，目前尚不清楚这是否涉及联合国准许美国和其他国家的海军登上即将驶入朝鲜港口的船舶检查。
The US applied pressure on China to take a tougher line on North Korea by announcing earlier this month the planned deployment of a new missile defence system in South Korea, which would have implications for China’s own armoury of conventional and nuclear missiles.
美国本月早些时候宣布计划在韩国部署一套新的导弹防御系统——该系统对中国自身的常规和核导弹力量具有潜在影响——以此来施压中国对朝采取更强硬立场。
Speaking during a visit to Washington on Thursday, Wang Yi, China’s foreign minister, sharply criticised the announcement about the Terminal High-Altitude Air Defence platform in South Korea. “China’s legitimate national security interests would be jeopardised and threatened,” he said.
周四，正在访问华盛顿的中国外长王毅发表讲话，尖锐批评在韩国部署末段高空区域防御系统(THAAD)平台的声明。他表示：“中国的正当国家安全利益很可能会受到损害，甚至是威胁。”
