Ok, if you're going to have a season of Friends without Rachel, you might as well just shut the whole thing down. In the words of Chandler Bing, could the series be any more terrible without Rachel making a substantial appearance in each episode? Moreover, you'd probably have to shut the whole thing down if any of the cast members couldn't appear in a season. There has been various sitcoms with ensemble casts, and on many of these sitcoms cast members would invariably leave after garnering movie fame. With some shows this led to an almost instant dismantling of the series' magic (um, hi, The Office and That 70's Show) but somehow these shows would still manage to trudge on for at least a few more seasons.
That being said, with a show where each member of the ensemble was so intimately conducive to every episode and storyline (sidebar: Chandler and Phoebe were originally going to supporting cast members but thank goodness the creators decided to forego that route), the show wouldn't have been able to sustain its magic or watchability without each character being involved. Still, after several seasons, Aniston had garnered substantial fame thanks to movie success and a high profile marriage to movie star Brad Pitt. In an interview, she spoke of her hesitations to continue the series after it had spanned almost a decade. "I had a couple issues I was dealing with," she said. "I wanted it to end when people still loved us and we were on a high. And then I was also feeling like, 'How much more of Rachel do I have in me?'" Obviously, Aniston agreed to a final season and we were given one last Ross/Rachel hoorah. Spoiler alert: Ross and Rachel end up together because of course they ended up together. It would have been a crime if they hadn't!
In "The One Where No One's Ready" from season 3, the episode centers on all of the friends having separate issues (albeit, hilarious ones) getting ready for Ross's benefit:
Joey and Chandler were best friends for the series' entirety, and roommates for several seasons. Their dynamic was complimented by their differences in personality—Joey was able to be suave with the ladies but arguably dim-witted at times, while Chandler was sharp and clever, but also admittedly awkward around women.
Gunther became quite the breakout character, but James Michael Taylor actually wasn't a working actor when cast. He was a barista at a coffee shop, and it was that very profession that got his foot in the door.
Ok brace yourself, because I'm going to go on a bit of a rant here. I didn't HATE the concept of Joey and Rachel. That's not to say I loved it, or even liked it all that much, but I wasn't incensed by it like so many others were. In fact, it actually kind of captivated my attention.
审校：Freya然 编辑：Freya然 来源：前十网
