The US on Sunday imposed sanctions on 11 companies and individuals connected to Iran’s ballistic missile programme just a day after it lifted nuclear sanctions that have hampered the Iranian economy.
美国周日宣布对与伊朗弹道导弹计划有关的11家企业及个人实施制裁，就在一天前，美国解除了近年严重妨碍伊朗经济发展的核制裁。
The announcement by the US Treasury, which affects companies in Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates as well as Iranian individuals, came just hours after four Americans jailed in Iran flew out of the country as part of a highly sensitive prisoner swap.
美国财政部发布声明前几小时，四名被伊朗关押的美国人刚刚飞离伊朗，这是一项高度敏感的交换囚犯计划的一部分。新的制裁将影响总部位于香港、阿拉伯联合酋长国的公司以及数名伊朗公民。
The administration has come under heavy pressure in recent weeks from Republicans and some Democrats in Congress to impose some sort of penalty on Iran over two missile tests it conducted last year.
最近几周，奥巴马政府受到了国会共和党议员甚至部分民主党议员的巨大压力，要求对伊朗去年进行的两次导弹试验实施某种惩罚。
However, although the decision to add the new names to the sanctions list had been aired in advance, the timing could provide fodder to hardline critics of the nuclear deal in Iran who question the benefits of dealing directly with Washington.
然而，尽管美国将这些新对象加入制裁名单的决定早已被外界所知，但这一时机选择可能为伊朗国内反对核协议的强硬派人士提供口实，后者质疑与华盛顿直接打交道会有多少好处。
“Iran’s ballistic missile program poses a significant threat to regional and global security, and it will continue to be subject to international sanctions,” said Adam Szubin, acting undersecretary for terrorism and financial intelligence at the US Treasury.
美国财政部负责反恐和金融情报的代理副部长亚当舒宾(Adam Szubin)称：“伊朗的弹道导弹计划对地区乃至全球安全构成重大威胁，伊朗将继续受到国际制裁。”
“We have consistently made clear that the United States will vigorously press sanctions against Iranian activities outside of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action [the nuclear deal] — including those related to Iran’s support for terrorism, regional destabilisation, human rights abuses and ballistic missile program.”
“我们一直明确表示，美国将积极对（伊核协议）《共同全面行动计划》之外的伊朗活动实施制裁，包括伊朗支持恐怖主义、破坏地区稳定、侵犯人权发展弹道导弹计划。”
In a nationally televised press conference on Sunday, Hassan Rouhani, Iranian president, said that any breach by the US of the nuclear agreement by imposing new sanctions would result in a response by Iran, although he gave no further details.
伊朗总统哈桑脠哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)周日在全国转播的记者会上表示，美国通过实施新的制裁对核协议造成的任何破坏都将招致伊朗的回击，尽管他没有给出进一步的细节。
“And if they do it [imposing sanctions] in other areas [non-nuclear], they will receive Iran’s reciprocal response,” he told reporters. “But the conditions in the future are not the conditions by which previous sanctions can be reimposed … [even though] we may face some difficulties.”
As a result of the nuclear agreement with Iran, which was fully implemented at the weekend, the US has lifted a series of sanctions on its economy that were connected to Iran’s nuclear programme. A senior US official said on Saturday that 400 Iranian names had been taken off the sanctions list as a result of the nuclear agreement.
与伊朗的核协议已于刚刚过去的周末全面实施，美国依据该协议已取消了一系列与伊朗核计划有关的对伊朗的经济制裁。美国一名高级官员上周六表示，根据此次核协议，400家伊朗公司已从制裁名单中被撤下。
According to US officials, Iran conducted ballistic missile tests in October and November which were in violation of UN resolutions. The 11 new designations to the sanctions list have all been accused of being involved in procurement of material for Iran’s ballistic missile programme.
据美国官员表示，伊朗在去年10月和11月进行了弹道导弹试射，违反了联合国决议。制裁名单上新出现的11家公司全都被指参与了伊朗弹道导弹计划的材料采购。
Companies and individuals on the sanctions list have their US assets frozen and are barred from doing business with Americans.
制裁名单上的公司与个人在美国的资产遭到冻结，并被禁止与美国人做生意。
The seven individuals are all Iranian except for Chen Mingfu, a Chinese citizen, whose Hong-Kong based company Anhui Land Group was also listed. Two companies based in Dubai, Candid General Trading and Mabrooka Trading, were designated.
制裁名单上的7人中有6个是伊朗人，还有一名中国公民陈明福（音），其在香港注册的Anhui Land Group也在制裁名单上。总部位于迪拜的两家公司——Candid General Trading和Mabrooka Trading——也在被制裁之列。
