 Several dozen prominent Republican foreign policy experts are poised to issue a harsh attack on Donald Trump as the property developer closes in on the party’s presidential nomination.
 随着唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)离共和党总统候选人的位置越来越近，共和党数十名重要外交政策专家向这名地产商发动猛烈抨击。
 The critique will be published in the form of a letter whose signatories include. Dov Zakheim, a former top Pentagon official The letter is due to be published on WarOnTheRocks.com, a foreign policy website, on Thursday.
 此次批评以公开信的形式发表，签署者包括前五角大楼(Pentagon)高官多夫•扎赫姆(Dov Zakheim)。这封信于周三发表在外交政策网站“WarOnTheRocks.com”上。
 As well as his controversial views on immigration and hostility to trade deals, many members of the foreign policy community fear that a Trump administration would damage relations with allies such as Japan, South Korea and Germany. They also fear that he is too sympathetic towards authoritarian rivals of the US, such as Russian leader Vladimir Putin.
 共和党外交政策界的许多成员除了担心特朗普的移民观点和对贸易协定的敌视态度，还担心如果特朗普上台，其政府会损害美国与日本、韩国和德国等众多盟国的关系。他们也担心特朗普对一些与美国对抗的威权政府过于同情，比如俄罗斯领导人弗拉基米尔•普京(Vladimir Putin)。
 The push to highlight concerns about Mr Trump and his foreign policy statements is being spearheaded by Eliot Cohen, a former top state department official in President Bush’s administration, and Bryan McGrath, a retired navy officer who advised Mitt Romney during his 2012 run for the White House.
 这场批评活动的目的是推动人们高度关注特朗普及其外交政策言论，活动发起者是前布什(Bush)政府国务院高官艾略特•科恩(Eliot Cohen)，以及退役海军军官布莱恩•麦格拉思(Bryan McGrath)，他曾在米特•罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)2012年竞选总统期间担任其幕僚。
 Mr Trump has vowed to take a tough stance on countries from Mexico to Japan to China. Mr McGrath declined to reveal the specifics of the letter, but said it was a “fair restatement of the positions that Mr Trump has taken or bragged about”. He said it was intended to show people the extent of opposition to his approach on foreign policy.
 特朗普曾发誓要对墨西哥、日本、中国等国家采取强硬立场。麦格拉思表示，这封信“公正地重述了特朗普所持有，或吹嘘的立场”。他表示这封信的目的是向人们展示特朗普所持外交政策受到的反对程度。
 “Trump needs to be stopped,” said Mr Zakheim. “His words are being taken seriously overseas. He has upset our allies in Central America, Europe, East Asia and the Middle East. That is not a recipe for American leadership.”
 扎赫姆说：“特朗普需要被阻止。他的话正在国外被当真。他已经惹怒了我们在中美洲、欧洲、东亚和中东地区的盟友。这不是美国领导人该有的做法。”
 Mr Trump’s rise has sparked concern in the US foreign policy community, particularly among those who feel that he would try to implement the isolationist stance associated with Robert Taft, the conservative senator who ran unsuccessfully for the Republican presidential nomination during and after the second world war.
 特朗普的崛起引发了美国外交政策界的关注，尤其是部分人士觉得他会尽力实现罗伯特•塔夫脱(Robert Taft)式的孤立主义立场，这位保守派参议员曾在二战期间和战后竞选共和党总统候选人提名，但没有成功。
 But some Republicans who share the sentiments in the letter expressed reservation about publishing the attack. They said it would just fuel Mr Trump’s campaign by giving him more ammunition to argue that he is the only candidate willing to take on the status quo in Washington.
 一些共和党人虽与这封公开信看法相同，但对此次抨击持保留观点。他们表示这封信只会助长特朗普的竞选势头，为他提供更多弹药，让他得以宣称他是唯一愿意改变华盛顿现状的候选人。
