Students will now be able to snooze between classes, as the ASUC has just opened several designated napping areas across campus.
加州大学柏克莱分校学生会，近日在校园里开设了几个特定的休息区，供学生们在课间小睡。
The office held a launch event for these Relaxation Enhancing Study and Tranquility, or REST, Zones last week on Sproul. The zones are located in Bechtel Engineering Center, Wurster Hall, Eshleman Hall and the Tang Center.
学生会上周在史普罗举行了项目启动仪式，希望这种“休息区”能让学生通过放松来提高学习效率，获得内心平静。“休息区”分布于校内的工学院中心、伍斯特厅、艾许曼厅和医务中心等处。
"I really want to introduce this new mindset—that it's O.K. to nap and it's O.K. to take a break, especially when so many students at this school are affected by mental health issues," said ASUC Academic Affairs Vice President Melissa Hsu.
学生会负责教务的副会长梅丽莎·许表示：“我非常希望能普及这种新观念：‘小睡或休息一会儿有益身心'，尤其是在当下这种时期——学校的许多学生都面临着心理问题的困扰。”
The REST Zones consist of small areas outfitted with comfortable lounge chairs. The first four zones will accommodate a total of about 15 students at one time, according to Hsu.
小许透露，“休息区”被进一步分隔成更小的区域，并配有舒适的躺椅。最先开放的四个“休息区”一次可容纳约15名学生休息。
The creation of the REST Zones and their furniture was funded by the Chancellor's Advisory Committee on Student Services and Fees, or CACSSF, and the Wellness Initiative Fee. CACSSF contributed $80,000 while the fee provided an additional $12,000 directly to the zones and another $12,000 to the Tang Center for related marketing.
“休息区”的建立以及设施的配备得到了校长咨询委员会学生资费部和福祉费用部的资助。学生资费部为该项目提供了8万美元，福祉费用部直接供给该项目1.2万美元，同时还向医务中心提供了1.2万美元资金用于宣传推广。
Much of this funding was acquired by Hsu, who began advocating for the creation of REST Zones more than a year ago.
一年多前，小许就开始倡导建立“休息区”，并为此筹集了不少资金。
"I noticed … that people weren't getting enough sleep, and that directly related to their mood," Hsu said.
小许说：“我意识到……学生们的睡眠都不够，这种情况会直接影响他们的情绪。”
According to Maddy Abroms, the director of the REST Zones project, in a survey on wellness, "one of the biggest complaints among students is a lack of sleep."
“休息区”项目总监麦迪·阿布拉姆斯称，一次有关健康的调查显示，“学生们最常抱怨的一个问题就是缺觉。”
One of the sources of funds, the wellness referendum, was passed by the ASUC last spring and allocates funds for student wellness, including mental health. A $54 per-semester fee, included in student tuition, goes toward the Tang Center and other mental and physical health services such as the REST Zones.
“健康公投”是资金来源之一。该项目去年春天在学生会获得通过，之后就为学生划拨了健康（包括心理健康）基金。学生每学期交纳的学费中，会有54美元被投入到医务中心和“休息区”等其他提供身心健康服务的项目中去。
Students who attended the launch voiced enthusiasm for the REST Zones.
参加“休息区”启动仪式的学生都对该项目表现出了极大热情。
The REST Zones are intended for student use and have been placed in locations that are visited primarily by students, Hsu said.
小许说，“休息区”专为学生设立，这些区域也是学生们平常常去的地方。
The office expects to open several more REST Zones later this semester or in fall 2016.
学生会打算在本学期末或今年秋天开设更多的“休息区”。
