Years ago, throngs of fans would huddle around their tv sets to watch six generation X-ers who always managed to be "there for you" through thick and thin—and they're still "there" for all of us that binge watch the series ten years after its finale.
As all of us hardcore Friends fans know, the main couple of the show that pulled at our heartstrings and demanded our attention with their on-again, off-again romance throughout the series was Ross and Rachel. I can remember when these two stole my heart right from the pilot as we all watched Rachel—who had moved in with Monica after going all runaway bride on her dentist fiancee—clamor with the sudden 180 her life had taken as Ross awkwardly (i.e., adorably) tried to compose himself around a girl he had had a crush on since high school.
It's hard to imagine the role of Rachel being played by anyone other than Jennifer Aniston. However, the role was originally supposed to go to Courtney Cox. Cox turned down the role because she said she preferred to play Monica, because she felt that character was "stronger". Thank goodness she and the creators went that route, because Cox as Monica was absolute perfection! Heck, could you honestly picture any of the cast members playing another character?
The opening credits to Friends may be as iconic as the show itself. With the feel-good 90's track I'll Be There For You by The Rembrandts playing in the background (which was actually co-written by Friends' creators Marta Kauffman and David Crane), we see the entire cast dancing with umbrellas in a fountain that appears to be in New York City—just as I finished writing that sentence, I realized how weird that concept sounds but somehow they made it work. Apparently, the scene was never shot in a park in New York City, but on a Warner Bros. lot. Go figure. According to IMDB, the whole thing took place during a 4 a.m. shoot where the water was kept warm via a heated pump.
Could Chandler Bing be any more heterosexual? Apparently that wasn't a widely held sentiment. Lisa Kudrow was surprised during the show's first table read to learn that Chandler wasn't gay, as that was her original interpretation of him. During the show's early days, many fans speculated about Chandler's sexual orientation as well.
In season 6, Bruce Willis guest starred in a few episodes as the father of Ross's girlfriend (and former student), Elizabeth. Willis's character, Paul Stevens, and Ross had a testy relationship due to the fact that he disapproved of the age difference between Ross and Elizabeth. Paul went on to have a brief relationship with Rachel, and during that time, Ross is able to garner somewhat of a truce with Paul. In Willis's most memorable episode, "The One Where Paul's The Man", Ross and Elizabeth attempt to hide their relationship from Paul and escape for a weekend at Elizabeth's grandmother's cottage, not knowing that Paul and Rachel are arriving that same weekend. While hiding under a bed from Paul, Ross catches Paul giving himself a pep talk about Rachel in a hilarious sequence where he starts singing to himself, flexing, and calling himself "the man" and a "love machine". When Paul catches wind that Ross was privy to this, he no longer makes threat against Ross's and Elizabeth's relationship.
审校：Freya然 编辑：Freya然 来源：前十网
