US and European equities rallied at the end of a turbulent week dominated by fears about the financial sector as central banks take extreme measures to boost global growth.
美欧股市在本周动荡行情进入尾声之际反弹，在各国央行采取极端举措促进全球经济增长之际，投资者对金融业感到担忧，这种情绪主宰着本周行情。
The pan-European Stoxx 600, which lost 6.8 per cent over the previous four sessions, closed up 2.9 per cent as Commerzbank led a banking sector rebound with an 18 per cent surge after the German lender restored its dividend.
泛欧指数Stoxx 600在本周前4个交易日下跌6.8%，周五收涨2.9%，德国商业银行(Commerzbank)引领银行类股反弹，在恢复支付股息后，这家德国银行的股价飙升18%。
On Wall Street, the S&P 500, which closed on Thursday at a 22-month low, gained almost 2 per cent, supported by data showing that the US consumer does not appear to have been fazed by recent market turmoil.
在华尔街，标准普尔500指数(S&P 500)周四收盘创下22个月低点，但周五上涨近2%，因数据显示，美国消费者似乎没有因最近的市场动荡而感到恐慌。
“Markets are pricing a deep and long recession scenario that is simply not playing out in the data. Yes, it can come in the future, but consumer spending accelerating in January confirms that there is not much evidence of the negative wealth effects that markets worry so much about,” said Torsten Slok, chief international economist at Deutsche Bank.
德意志银行(Deutsche Bank)首席国际经济学家托尔斯滕斯洛科(Torsten Slok)表示：“市场正在价格上计入一场深刻且长久的衰退，这种前景没有体现在数据上。未来可能会有所体现，但1月消费者支出加快证实，让市场如此担忧的负面财富效应并没有太多证据。”
US banks also got a boost after JPMorgan Chase revealed that chief executive Jamie Dimon had bought $26.5m of stock — a move painted as a vote of confidence in the sector.
美国银行类股也受到提振，此前摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)公布，该银行首席执行官杰米戴蒙(Jamie Dimon)已买入该银行2650万美元的股票，此举表明他对银行业投下信任票。
A bounce in oil prices further bolstered sentiment, as traders trimmed positions in recently buoyant haven assets such as gold and highly-rated government bonds.
油价反弹进一步增强了市场人气，交易员减少了对最近一度活跃的避险资产的投资，例如黄金和评级较高的政府债券。
The Japanese yen, another perceived bolthole, traded 0.7 per cent softer at Y113.24 — but had been trading near 15-month highs towards the end of the Asian session.
另一项避险资产日元兑美元汇率下跌0.7%，至1美元兑113.24日元，但在亚洲收盘前曾接近15个月高点。
