The billionaire founder of one of China’s most famous fashion brands has returned to work a week after his company said he had gone missing, the latest in a series of entrepreneurs and financiers apparently embroiled in Beijing’s anti-corruption campaign.
中国著名时装品牌美特斯邦威(Metersbonwe)的创始人周成建已重返工作岗位，一周前他的公司称与他失联。近期有一批企业家和金融家似乎被卷入北京的反腐败斗争，周成建是最新的一位。
Metersbonwe, one of the best known brands on the Chinese high street, said in a statement to the Shenzhen stock exchange last Friday that founder Zhou Chengjian, China’s 62nd richest man with a fortune of Rmb26.5bn ($4bn) last year, was back at work along with Tu Ke, board secretary.
上周五，美特斯邦威向深圳证券交易所提交声明，称公司创始人周成建与董事会秘书涂珂都已在岗履职。周成建在中国富豪榜排名第62位，去年的身家为265亿元人民币（合40亿美元）。
In a statement on January 7 the company said it was unable to reach either man and that its shares were suspended while company officials investigated media reports that Mr Zhou had been detained by police. No details of the disappearance were given in last week’s statement.
美特斯邦威1月7日发公告表示，由于该公司未能与两人取得联系，公司股票将临时停牌，其间公司领导将核实关于周成建被警察带走的媒体报道。美特斯邦威在上周的公告中没有透露周成建失联的详情。
However, shares in the company will remain suspended until at least February 5, a further statement said, adding that the company planned a “major asset restructuring”.
然而，该公司在一份后续声明中表示，美特斯邦威的股票将继续停牌到至少2月5日，声明补充称，该公司正在筹划“重大资产重组”。
Mr Zhou’s disappearance followed close on the heels of that of Guo Guangchang, chairman of the conglomerate Fosun, one of China’s best known companies internationally because of its ownership of Club Med. Mr Guo went missing in December and was later reported by his company to be assisting authorities with an investigation.
周成建失联之前，复星集团(Fosun)董事长郭广昌也曾失联，由于收购了地中海俱乐部(Club Med)，该集团成了中国在国际上最知名的公司之一。郭广昌在去年12月失联，随后他的公司报告称，他在协助当局调查。
The detention of the two men caused jitters in the mainland private sector, which had been largely untouched by anti-corruption investigations that had targeted mostly government officials, executives of state-owned companies and financial industry executives.
周成建与涂珂被带走的消息在中国私营部门引起了不安情绪，此前反腐调查的目标主要是政府官员、国有企业和金融业的高管，基本未涉及私营部门。
Mr Guo was subsequently released and allowed to travel overseas. Sources close to the company said at the time he was not the target of the investigation.
郭广昌随后被释放，并获准出境。据接近该公司的消息人士表示，郭广昌并不是调查对象。
