The billionaire founder of Metersbonwe, one of China’s best-known fashion brands, has gone missing, the latest in a series of Chinese business people and financiers apparently embroiled in the country’s anti-corruption campaign.
中国最知名时尚品牌之一美特斯邦威(Metersbonwe)的亿万富翁创始人失踪，这是明显因卷入中国反腐斗争而失踪的一系列中国商界人士和金融家中的最新一例。
Metersbonwe suspended trading in its shares on the Shenzhen stock exchange yesterday while the company said it was investigating reports in the Chinese media that Zhou Chengjian, its chairman, had been picked up by police.
昨日，美特斯邦威在深交所上市的股票停牌，该公司表示正在调查中国媒体上有关董事长周成建被警方带走的报道。
The company is a household name on the Chinese high street and Mr Zhou was China’s 65th-richest man last year, according to the Hurun Rich list, with a fortune of Rmb26.5bn ($4.01bn). The company said in a second statement last night that it was unable to reach Mr Zhou or the secretary of the board, Tu Ke.
美特斯邦威是中国商业街上家喻户晓的品牌，在去年的胡润百富榜(Hurun Rich List)上，周成建是中国排名第65位的富豪，身家达到265亿元人民币（合40.1亿美元）。昨晚，该公司在第二份声明中表示，无法联系到周成建及董事会秘书涂珂。
Mr Zhou is the latest high-profile private sector businessman believed to have been caught up in the investigations, and his disappearance follows the detention last month of Guo Guang挀栀愀渀最 of the conglomerate Fosun, which owns Club Med.
周成建是据信被卷入反腐调查的知名私营部门商界人士中的最新一个。在此之前，旗下拥有地中海俱乐部(Club Med)的企业集团复星(Fosun)的郭广昌上月曾被警方带走。
Mr Guo went missing for several days and was later reported by his company to be assisting authorities with an unspecified investigation. Sources close to the company later said he was not a target of that investigation.
郭广昌失踪了几天，后来复星表示，郭广昌被带走是为了协助当局对某案件的调查。知情人士后来表示，郭广昌并非调查对象。
Until recently, the mainland private sector had been largely spared in the Chinese Communist party’s anti-corruption drive. Mr Guo’s detention therefore sent shockwaves through China’s business community.
直到不久以前，在中国共产党的反腐行动中，内地私营部门基本得以幸免。因此，郭广昌被带走一事在中国商界引起了轩然大波。
Dozens of government officials, state-owned company officials and financial industry executives have also been investigated or detained in recent months.
最近数月，遭调查或拘留的还有几十名政府官员、国企领导和金融行业高管。
Mr Zhou, a former tailor who became rich after founding one of China’s first nationwide fashion brands, went bankrupt twice before he was 18, but repeatedly relaunched businesses until he was successful. Metersbonwe succeeded by selling fashionable clothes more cheaply than foreign brands such as H&M and Zara and targeting college students and recent graduates.
曾经是裁缝的周成建在创立中国首批全国性时尚品牌之一后发家致富。他在18岁以前曾两度破产，但他一次次东山再起，直至取得成功。美特斯邦威依靠出售比H&M和Zara等外国品牌更便宜的时尚服饰成功，面向大学生和新近毕业的学生。
Mr Zhou told the Financial Times last year that he ended up running the village shop in the rural village where he was raised, in eastern Zhejiang province, because he was “lazier” than other members of the family. Mr Zhou recreated part of his village home inside the headquarters of his clothing brand in suburban Shanghai, complete with vegetable fields tilled by his elderly father.
去年，周成建告诉英国《金融时报》记者，小时候他因为比家里的其他人更“懒散”，曾在他长大的浙江省东部的一个村子里打理村中商店。周成建在美特斯邦威位于上海郊区的总部园区重建了他在村子里的家的一部分，连同由他年迈的父亲耕种的菜地。
