The US is on the verge of meeting most of the economic conditions the Federal Reserve has set to increase interest rates next month, according to a member of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee.
负责制定利率的联邦公开市场委员会(FOMC)的一名成员表示，美国即将满足美联储(Federal Reserve)下月加息的大部分经济条件。
Eric Rosengren, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, told the Financial Times he was getting ready to back tighter monetary policy after financial and economic indicators swung in a positive direction after the Fed’s policy meeting in March.
波士顿联储(Federal Reserve Bank of Boston)行长埃里克•罗森格伦(Eric Rosengren)向英国《金融时报》表示，在3月美联储政策会议后金融和经济指标向着积极方向发展的情况下，他已经准备好支持收紧货币政策。
Until last week markets were putting extremely low odds on a summer rate increase, in part because of the dovish tone of Fed chair Janet Yellen’s last speech two months ago. That picture was transformed on Wednesday, as the Fed minutes from its April rate-setting meeting suggested it was preparing the ground for a second interest rate increase following the quarter point rise in December.
直到上周市场仍然认为夏天加息的可能性极低，部分是由于美联储主席珍妮特•耶伦(Janet Yellen)两个月前演讲的鸽派调子。这一局面在上周三扭转，那天美联储发布4月议息会议的会议纪要，似乎表明继去年12月加息25个基点之后，它已经准备好第二次加息。
“I want to be sensitive to how the data comes in, but I would say that most of the conditions that were laid out in the minutes, as of right now, seem to be . . . on the verge of broadly being met,” said Mr Rosengren, who has a vote on rates this year as part of the regular rotation of regional Fed presidents on the FOMC.
“我想对最新数据保持敏感，但是我会说，就目前而言，会议纪要列出的大部分条件，似乎……即将大致得到满足，”罗森格伦表示。今年，作为FOMC地区联储行长定期轮值制度的一部分，他对利息决定拥有投票权。
To justify a move at its next policy meeting in June, the Fed set itself three tests: to see additional signs of a rebound in the economy in the second quarter, further strengthening in the jobs market and for inflation to carry on towards the Fed’s 2 per cent goal. While policymakers are divided over whether these conditions will all be met by next month, Mr Rosengren said he saw the preconditions for a June rise falling into place.
对于在6月下一次政策会议上采取加息行动，美联储给自己设置了3根标杆：观察到第二季度经济反弹的更多迹象、就业市场进一步加强、以及通胀率继续向着美联储2%的目标趋近。尽管政策制定者对于下月是否会全部满足这些条件看法不一，但是罗森格伦称，在他看来，6月加息的先决条件正在逐渐到位。
