What is the most difficult thing to learn and accept about life?
生命中最难接受的事情是什么？
The hardest things for me to learn and accept have been:
我最不想学会和接受的事情有：
The universe doesn't care if I succeed or fail.
没有人在乎我成功或失败。
The biggest obstacle I have to overcome in pursuing success is myself.
在追求成功上，我必须克服的最大的困难就是战胜我自己。
Other people seldom see me the way I think they do, or the way I want them to.
别人对我的印象跟我想象当中的相差甚远，也不是我希望留给他们的印象。
I can't change you.
我改变不了你。
Nobody owes me anything.
没有人亏欠我什么。
I can't get the time back.
我不能让时光倒流。
I won't be here one day, and I have no idea when that day will come or how I'm going to exit this life.
总有一天我会死，但我不知道那天什么时候来临，更不知道这辈子我要怎么活。
For me, the hardest things to learn in life have been:
我最不想学习和接受的事情有：
Learning to admit I'm wrong. And not just admit it to myself, but openly find the people that showed me I was wrong and then thanking them. The task of admitting we're wrong is already hard enough, but when compounded by my own obligation to find the person and say, "Hey, you were right. I was wrong." Make it painful sometimes. I would like to believe that I'm getting better, but it's a work in progress.
学着承认错误。不仅仅只是跟我自己承认错误，还有被别人指出了我的错误，我还要谢谢人家。承认错误的任务已经够艰难了，但是有时候我还必须去跟一个人说,“嘿，你是对的，我是错的。”有时候这很痛苦。我宁愿去相信我正在变好，但是要慢慢来。
In the same vein: changing my mind. We are creatures designed to be stubborn. Being feisty, stubborn and willful kept our ancestors alive. Being right was secondary. We circle ourselves with people who agree with us, we surround ourselves with media and reading that confirms our biases. It's really challenging to change our mind. I'm learning to do it. I am getting there because I spend immense effort in arguing against everything I believe and testing my assumptions as frequently as possible.
Learning to let go. It's hard. We innately want eternity. Our religions are obsessed with this: "Don't worry, this isn't just a short life. You've got eternity later." We loathe the notion that we're here then gone. I'm learning to let go of that delusion. I'm here, then I'm gone.
学会放手。这很难。我们生来就很执着。我们的信仰就是：“别担心，生命很长，你会得到永生的。”我们极其反感那种我们很快就会消失的观念。我正试着从那种错觉当中放手。活在当下。
