What do foreigners find most annoying about Americans?
外国人最烦美国人哪一点？ 
As an Australian who has travelled quite a bit and been part of many different expat communities, I find that Americans more than people from other countries do this one particular thing that annoys me.
我是个澳大利亚人，旅行过很多地方，也去过很多各种各样的外籍人士社区，然后我发现跟其他国家的人比起来美国人有一点特别讨厌。
When I am speaking, really about anything, just in general conversation, I hate being interrupted so that someone can impersonate my accent to me.
当我在说话的时候，不管我再说什么，就算只是一场普通的谈话，我也很讨厌别人插嘴打断我然后去模仿我的发音。
This is how it goes:
So I have a different accent. I get that. But people not from Australia have a very different accent from me. I don't stop them midway through a conversation to repeat back to them what they said because, well, it's just rude.
我知道我口音跟美国人不一样，但是还有很多外国人口音也跟我不一样，我就不会中途打断他们说话然后去模仿他们说话，这样太无礼了。
So...this is not exactly an annoyance. But one thing I notice about some (many?) Americans that I don't see that much elsewhere is, they are eating or drinking something all the time. Like, if they go to the movies they're munching on a huge bucket of popcorn or sipping on a bucket of soda through the entire movie. If they're walking down the street they have a Starbucks latte or a Snapple bottle or something in one hand and a phone in the other. Or they are chewing gum. They eat in the car all the time too. The excuse I've heard for this is it's because Americans are so busy all the time that they have to eat on the run anywhere they can. But still...aren't people in other countries busy too? It's a bit of a puzzle.
呃······其实也不是很讨厌，但是我注意到有一些（很多？）美国人无时不刻都在吃东西，我在其他地方都没见过这样的。比如说，如果他们去看电影的话，他们会津津有味地咀嚼一大桶爆米花或者狂喝一大桶苏打水；如果他们走在街边，必定会一只手端着星巴克拿铁或者斯奈普果汁或者其他什么东西，然后另一只手拿着手机。或是他们还会嚼口香糖。他们就连在车里也一直吃吃吃。他们告诉我这是因为美国人太忙了所以只能尽可能就地吃点东西。但还是······难道其他国家的人就不忙吗？我真搞不懂他们。
I get worried about Americans' response if I criticize something about the US. Europeans and Asians are used to criticism from outsiders more due to multicultural geography and not take that criticism as hate. Every now and then, when I criticize something about the US online, even when I'm very careful with my words to not offend anyone, I still receive some responses like, "First look at your own country!", "You're not from here, you have no right to say anything." "Foreigners hate America."
当我在评论美国某些方面的时候很担心美国人对此的反应。大概是因为地域多样性吧，欧洲人和亚洲人都很习惯接受来自外界的评论，起码他们不会认为这些评论带有恶意。我经常遇到这种情况，当我在网上评论美国某些方面时，就算我已经很控制自己的语言不带有冒犯意味，我还是会收到这样的评论：“先看看你自己的国家再来说我们！”、“你不是本地人，你没资格说任何话。”、“你们这些外国人就是讨厌美国。”
Americans have a lot of behaviors that while not being actually bad things, seem rude to foreigners.
美国人的有些行为并非怀有恶意，但是对外国人来说好像很失礼。
Americans are loud.
美国人太吵了。
It seems to be the norm here in the US, so you don't notice it a lot, but in other countries where people speak "normally", it sounds very rude/uneducated.
在美国有些地方似乎没有明确规定要保持安静，所以你们就不太注意这点，但是在其他国家如果大家都以“正常音量”说话，美国人的大嗓门听起来就非常粗鲁，或者说没教养。
Especially in restaurants, where all the locals speak softly and politely to each other, and a group of people is like "OH MY GAWD, THIS FOOD IS SO GOOD, BWAHAHAHA, THAT'S THE SH*T DUDE!"
特别是在餐馆里面，所有本地人交谈的时候都很温柔礼貌，但是有一群人是这样讲话的：“哦！！我的天！！这太好吃了！！哇啊啊啊啊！！！！太特么美味了！！！”
Everyone else in the restaurant is immediately thinking "Rude Americans".
餐馆里的其他人就会立刻反应过来：“是野蛮的美国人。”
