English (language): What is the most misspelt word in the English language?
英语中最常拼错的单词是？
1."may be" and "maybe" are different.
(1)"may be"和"maybe"是不一样的。
may be just means might be, a verb phrase.
may be只表示可能会，是动词短语。
(2)maybe means perhaps, an adverb.
Maybe表示或许，是副词。
2. I have noticed this mistake very frequently in written English, even from very well read people. In spoken English, it's difficult to make out whether the person saying it is actually meaning the correct word :)
我在书面英语中经常会看到这种错误，即使是出自一些非常博学的人们。在口语中，很难区分人们是否说的是正确的单词。
Everyday和Every day
( Every 和day之间有空格)
Everyday and every day are commonly confused in English. There’s no difference in pronunciation, but using the wrong one when writing is a mistake in the everyday English you use every day.
在英语里面，Everyday 和every day经常被混淆使用。在发音上面没有区别，但是当表达everyday English，你用every day时就用错了。
Everyday is an adjective that means commonplace, ordinary, or normal.Everyday
是个形容词，表示日常的、每天的。
(2)Every day 
表示每天。
3.Ever since I have been on Quora, I am beginning to think 'lose' is the most misspelt word. Unfortunately, it is a mistake even autocorrect cannot correct because both forms - 'lose' & 'loose' are real words!
自从我上Quora后，我开始认为'lose'是最容易拼错的单词。不幸的是，这个错误即使是自动更正也没用，因为这两种形式'lose' & 'loose' 都是实际存在的单词。
People here 'loose' weight, 'loose' their temper, 'loose' their belongings, 'loose' boyfriends and girlfriends...while I 'lose' my cool because my internet isn't good enough for me to correct all these loosely written answers...
人们减肥（'loose'），失去脾气（'loose' ），失去财产（'loose' ），失去男友和女友（'loose' ）...然而我丢掉了我的风度，因为我的网不好，不能让我去更正所有的这些懒散的书面回答...
We 'lose' weight which makes our trousers 'loose'. We 'lose' our cool, but that does not make us 'loose' people. When someone dies, then we 'lose' them, but when someone is immoral, he/she is 'loose'. When we breakup with someone, we 'lose' our boyfriend/girlfriend. We are footloose and fancy free, but when we misplace our slippers, we 'lose' them.
我们减肥（'lose'）会让我们的裤子变松（'loose'）。我们失去风度（'lose'），但是它不会让变成懒散的人。一些人去世后，我们便失去了他们（'lose'），但是当某人不道德时，他/她是散漫的（'loose'）。当我们和某人分手时，我们便失去了男友/女友（'lose'）。我们自由自在、无拘无束，但是当我们把拖鞋放错位置时，我们弄丢了他们（'lose'）。
So, yes, my vote goes to 'lose' misspelt as 'loose', loosely speaking....I hate 'loose'y English.
所以，是的，我投票给把'lose'拼成'loose'的，不严格地说...我讨厌不严谨的英语。
