What was it like to be at Harvard with Natalie Portman?
在哈佛跟娜塔丽·波特曼同校是啥感觉？ 
Unremarkable.
很稀疏平常呀。
I was at Harvard at the same time as Natalie Portman (1999-2003). My roommate took a seminar with her (a small five-person class that met for a few hours each week) in which they read War and Peace. He said she was pretty down-to-earth, and academically focused.
我跟娜塔丽·波特曼同届，1999年-2003年在哈佛念书。我的室友跟她一个研讨课（一个五个人组成的小班，每周都会聚几个小时）阅读《战争与和平》。他说她很脚踏实地，在学术上很专注。
I saw her around campus occasionally - she lived in the same dorm as a girl I dated that year, but nothing noteworthy ever really happened.
我偶尔会在学校里看到她——她跟我那年交往的一个女孩住在同一个宿舍，但是从来没发生过什么值得注意的事。
She decided not to live in Harvard dorms during her last two years at the school, which was pretty unusual (more than 90% of students stay in the residential houses all 4 years). I think I never saw her between freshman year (when I saw her occasionally in our ridiculous Harry Potter-style dining hall) and graduation.
读最后两年的时候，她决定不住哈佛的宿舍了，这很不寻常（超过90%的学生四年都住在宿舍里）。我觉得我从大一（我偶尔会在我们那可笑的哈利波特式的餐厅里看见她）到快毕业了都从没见过她。
Interesting side note. Natalie Portman's info wasn't searchable in Harvard's main directory, but most students' info was.
I met Natalie once at a party. I was a bit intoxicated watching a DJ "spin" and felt a small tug on my sleeve.
我曾经在一个派对上见过娜塔丽一次。我正沉醉在看着DJ转啊转的时候，觉得有谁在拉我的袖子。
"Excuse me - you are standing on my foot."
“不好意思——你踩到我的脚了。”
I looked down at a cute, small girl and blurted "my bad, I'm sorry" as I stepped off her foot. I forget what she said other than she smiled and was rather cool about it. A few minutes later as I pondered talking to her again I realized she was Natalie Portman. So naturally I approached her and introduced myself while apologizing again. She was very gracious and introduced herself as Natalie. I walked away and called that a win.
我低头看到一个个子小小的女孩，脱口而出道：“我错了，很抱歉。”并且把脚从她脚上挪开。我忘了她除了笑了笑表示没关系之外其他还说了些什么。几分钟之后我想再跟她聊天的时候，我才意识到她是娜塔丽·波特曼。所以很自然地，我就上前去接近她，还有介绍我自己并且再次道歉。她很亲切，并且介绍自己是娜塔丽。我走开的时候觉得自己赚到了。
More generally, anyone I knew who met her had similar "down to earth" stories and found her to be a nice person. Otherwise, Harvard has quite a few celebrities enrolled at any given time and they have little to no impact on your time there other than friends, family, quora users, etc. asking if you saw them and what it was like. :)
一般而言，我知道那些见过她的人有着相似“她很坦率诚恳很脚踏实地”的感觉，而且觉得她人很好。另外，哈佛随时都有那么多名人入学，他们几乎不会对你的大学生活有什么影响，还不如你的朋友、家人、Quora用户等等。
