A Quora user asked: What are the best romantic relationship hacks? And then people shared their tried-and-true tips.
Quora上一位网友提问：爱情中最棒的技巧有哪些？网友们纷纷根据自己的经历给出了答案。
1. Keep a secret running list of stuff you partner wants to do or have.
1. 偷偷记下另一半想要的东西和想做的事情。
Then, on a special occasion or when you have the money, take that special weekend trip, buy that nifty thing.
然后在一个特别的时刻或是当你攒够钱以后，带着TA去度假或是买下那个TA早就想要的小玩意儿。
2. After a fight go for walk and hold hands.
2. 吵架之后牵着手一起散步。
Conversations are easier to have when you’re side-by-side rather than facing one another. Plus, can you really stay mad at someone when their hand is in yours?
肩并肩的谈话要比面对面容易得多。而且当你握着对方的手时你怎么还会生TA的气呢？
3. Use a silly codeword to ease tension during a fight or tough conversation.
3. 在吵架或争执时使用一些你们两人才懂的暗语来缓解气氛。
Make a deal that if one of you says your secret defusing code word, you’ll both stop arguing, hug, and find a solution. Chiminychonga!
你们可以约定好只要其中一人说到你们的秘密暗语比如Chiminychonga什么的，你们就停止争吵，拥抱并尝试寻找更好的解决方法。
4. Date your longterm partner like you’re still in the honeymoon stage.
4. 跟已是老夫老妻的另一半来一场初恋般、蜜月期的约会。
Pretend that you’re new to each other that you still have to work hard at being an awesome partner (even though you’ve already landed them).
你们可以假装刚刚认识对方，所以得非常努力地博取对方的好感和认可。
5. When you’re together, give them your full attention.
5. 两人在一起的时候，要把全部注意力都放在对方身上。
Like don’t even scroll through your instas. Make your person feel heard by really listening.
比如不要不停地用手机刷instagrams，而要真正通过倾听来了解和关心对方。
6. Plan sponteneity.
6. 主动计划。
Schedule in days of doing fun stuff you wouldn’t normally do like building a blanket fort or having an indoor campfire or going on a tandem bike ride.
计划做一些你们平时不常做的但有趣的事情，比如搭一个毯子堡垒、来一次室内篝火晚会或是进行一次双人自行车骑行活动等。
7. Say thank you constantly even for small stuff.
7. 即使是小事情也要常说谢谢。
Look, even though they’re minor tasks, no one wants to replace the toilet paper roll or hang up your dumb shirts. Just let your partner know you appreciate their contribution to your little world.
虽然是一些很琐碎很不值得一提的事情，但其实没人愿意为你换厕纸、挂衣服等等。所以要让你的另一半知道你感谢TA为你所做的每一件小事。
8. If you don’t really care about a thing, don’t argue about it.
8. 如果你真的不在意一件事情，就不要因此争执。
Let little stuff go and only make it a thing if it’s something truly important to you.
不要计较一些小事，除非这件事对你来说真的相当重要。
9. Give empowering gifts.
9. 为TA想做的事情创造条件。
If you partner has always wanted to learn tap dancing or go sky diving or travel solo but is too scared to take the leap or spend the money, show them your support and encouragement by gifting them the experiences they want.
如果你的另一半一直想学跳踢踏舞、想去跳伞或独自旅游但又缺乏勇气或是怕花钱的话，你就要表示出你的支持和鼓励，为TA创造条件帮助TA完成自己的心愿。
10. Be the antidote to your partner’s hangups.
10. 为你的另一半排忧解难。
It feels damn validating when your partner goes out of their way to let you know they love the very thing about us we’re worried is weird or bad or flawed.
尤其是当你的另一半想尽办法方法让你知道TA喜欢帮你分担那些令你担忧的事情时，你会更加确定这一点。
11. Give praise.
11. 不要吝啬你的夸奖。
Tell you’re partner how proud you are they got something done, took a step, faced a challenge, etc., no matter how small.
当你的另一半成功完成某件事、取得某种进步或面对某项挑战时，要告诉TA你为TA骄傲。
