What should I absolutely not do when visiting your country?
当我去别的国家时有什么绝对禁忌吗？ 
Don't tip anyone. No one. NO ONE.Tipping is just not part of the culture. Don't even leave the small change. People will come running after you with it. Seriously.
不要给任何人小费。不要给。千万别给！日本不兴给小费，甚至连找零都不要留下来，收银员会追着把钱还给你的，真的，不骗你。
Don't go into people's homes with your shoes on. You may run into this at certain temples and shrines, restaurants or traditional inns too. If you see other people taking their shoes off, do the same.
去别人家里一定要脱鞋，有的时候你去某些寺庙、神社、餐厅甚至传统旅馆都要脱鞋。如果你看到别人脱鞋了，那你就跟着一起脱吧。
Do not enter a bath tub without washing yourself outside the tub first, especially at onsen springs, or at public baths (sento).
在进浴缸前一定要把自己洗洗干净，尤其是在进温泉或者公共澡堂前，一定要先洗澡。
Stay on the correct side on escalators. In The Tokyo you stand on the left. In Osaka you stand on the right. Follow what other people are doing.
在上电扶梯时要站对边。在东京你要靠左站，在大阪你要靠右站，总之别人怎么做你也怎么做就行了。 
Kissing in a public place. In some jurisdictions this can get you into jail under "public obscenity" (a lot of our laws are stuck in the Victorian era). Although the law enforcement cuts some slack if the couple is married, if the couple is unmarried things can get really messy.
不要在公共场合接吻。在某些地方你会因“公共猥亵罪”而被捕入狱（我们有许多条法律还停留在维多利亚时期）。尽管执法机关会对已婚夫妇从轻发落，但是如果是未婚情侣的话，事情就会变得麻烦起来。
Shorts/skirts in a place of worship. Dresses that show anything above the ankle is generally frowned upon in most places of worship and in someplaces officially banned. This applies to both sexes.
不要在礼拜场所穿短裤或短裙。在大部分礼拜场所以及官方明令禁止的地方，不论男女，穿着脚踝以上的服装都会引起他人不悦。
As far as I'm concerned, there's only one "absolutely not" rule for Germany:
就我所知，在德国就只有一件事是“绝对不能做的”：
Don't do the Nazi salute. Not even in jest. It's a crime and every year there are tourists arrested for it. Also don't carry any Nazi symbols on you.
绝对不能行纳粹礼，就算开玩笑也不行。这种行为算是犯罪，而且每年都有游客因此被捕。同样地，你也不能携带任何带有纳粹标志的物品。
Don't give even number of flowers as a gift. That's for dead folks. Proper bouquet will have 1/3/5/7/... flowers.
送礼时不要送偶数倍的鲜花，那是送给死人的，通常来说花束里花的数目是1/3/5/7之类的。
Don't criticize Soviet Union when talking with people over 40. They grew up at those times and might be nostalgic. Even if they enjoy modern life they might not like hearing foreigners talking about it.
在和年龄超过40岁的人聊天时不要批评苏联，他们成长于那个年代而且有可能是怀旧派。即使他们对现在的生活很满意，他们也不喜欢外国人谈论苏联。
While in Singapore...
当你在新加坡的时候······
don't feed birds. They'll fine you.
不可以喂鸟，不然你会被罚款的。
don't spit. They'll fine you.
不可以吐痰，不然你会被罚款的。
don't urinate in public. They'll fine you.
不可以随地大小便，不然你会被罚款的。
don't bring durians into enclosed areas. They'll fine you.
不可以把榴莲带到密闭的房间内，不然你会被罚款的。
don't smoke in public. They'll fine you.
不可以在公共场合吸烟，不然你会被罚款的。
don't bring pets into public. They'll fine you.
不可以把宠物带到公共场合，不然你会被罚款的。
don't eat or drink on public transport. They'll fine you.
不可以在公共交通上吃喝，不然你会被罚款的。
don't litter. They'll fine you.
不可以乱扔垃圾，不然你会被罚款的。
don't bring flammable goods. They'll fine you.
不可以携带易燃易爆物品，不然你会被罚款的。
don't take drugs. They'll fine you.
不可以携带毒品，不然你会被罚款的。
don't walk around naked in public. They'll review or even take away your prestigious scholarship. Then they'll fine you.
不可以在公共场合裸奔，你会被罚写检讨甚至会被取消名校奖学金，然后你还是会被罚款。
don't bring more than 15g of heroin here. They'll kill you. (Capital punishment in Singapore)
不可以带超过15克的海洛因来新加坡，你会被当场判处死刑的，在新加坡这可是死罪。
