 The UN Security Council voted unanimously on Wednesday to impose tough new sanctions on North Korea in response to its latest nuclear test and rocket launch.
 周三，联合国安理会(UN Security Council)投票一致同意对朝鲜施加严厉的新一轮制裁，以回应其最近的核试验及火箭发射。
 The new sanctions, the result of a long and often tense negotiation between China and the US, include a ban on weapons exports and compulsory inspections of cargo entering and leaving North Korea.
 这轮新的制裁是中美长时间磋商的结果，这轮磋商曾多次陷入紧张状态。制裁包括一项武器出口禁令以及对进出朝鲜货物的强制性检查。
 UN diplomats said that the new package of sanctions included some of the toughest penalties ever levied on the country, but pointed out that previous sanctions had less impact than initially hoped because of China’s reluctance to fully implement them.
 联合国(UN)外交官表示，新一轮制裁包括一些有史以来对朝鲜施加的最严厉处罚手段。不过他们也指出，此前的制裁措施由于中国不愿全面贯彻实施，而未能产生最初希望看到的效果。
 The package contains one potentially important restriction whose impact will depend on how China chooses to police it. The UN resolution bans exports of coal, iron ore and iron to North Korea — commodities essential to its economy — unless they are for “livelihood purposes” and will not generate revenue for nuclear and missile programmes. Diplomats admitted there could be considerable ambiguity over how the new rules are interpreted.
 这轮制裁措施中包括一个可能十分重要的限制举措，其影响要看中国选择如何监督其实施。联合国决议禁止向朝鲜出口煤炭、铁矿石和铁等朝鲜经济必需的大宗商品——除非它们用于“生计目的”并且不会产生用于核计划和导弹计划的营收。多名外交官承认，对新规定的解释存在相当大的模糊空间。
 Samantha Power, the US ambassador to the UN, said the new package was “comprehensive, robust, and unprecedented”. The resolution aimed to address the reality that “virtually all of the DPRK’s resources are channelled into its reckless and relentless pursuit of weapons of mass destruction”.
 美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎•鲍尔(Samantha Power)表示，新一轮制裁措施是“全面、强硬而史无前例的”。该决议旨在应对这样一个事实：“朝鲜所有的资源，基本上都流向对大规模杀伤性武器不计后果而又毫不留情的开发”。
 The Chinese ambassador to the UN, Liu Jieyi, said the sanctions vote “should be a new starting point and a paving stone for political settlement of the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula” and that “sanctions are not an end in themselves”. He also said that China was strongly opposed to the decision to deploy an advanced US missile defence system in South Korea, which he said “harms the strategic and security interests of China”.
 中国驻联合国代表刘结一表示，制裁投票“应成为政治解决朝鲜半岛核问题的新起点和铺路石”，“制裁不是目的”。他还表示，中国强烈反对在韩国部署先进的美国“萨德”反导系统，称这将损害中国的战略安全利益。
 The new measures added 16 individuals, 12 entities and 31 ships to the sanctions list. They also ban trade in four types of luxury goods including watches and snowmobiles.
 新的制裁举措将增加16名个人、12家实体和31艘船只为制裁对象。此外，制裁还禁止手表、雪地摩托车等4种奢侈品的贸易。
 At the same time, the US Treasury department said it would add two North Korean government entities and 10 individuals to its own sanctions list.
 同时，美国财政部(US Treasury)表示将在美国自身的制裁名单上增加2个朝鲜政府实体和10名个人。
 Under the UN resolution, states are required to inspect all cargo coming from North Korea or entering the country that passes through their territory, and prohibits port calls by any vessels controlled by entities on the sanctions list.
 根据联合国决议，成员国必须检查所有过境的朝鲜进出口货物，并禁止所有制裁名单上的实体所控制的船只靠港。
 New financial sanctions include a ban on any North Korean banks opening branches outside the country, and freezes the assets of North Korean entities connected to the nuclear or missile programmes.
 新的金融制裁包括禁止任何朝鲜的银行在国外开设分支机构，冻结朝鲜核计划和导弹计划相关实体的资产。
