If we use the National College Entrance Exam as the sole criterion to evaluate every student, it will inevitably end up being an unequal foot race. If we want everyone to have a fair chance to shine, we have to let them choose to run or to swim based on their own strengths. We could establish another college entrance examination where students' technical skills make up 70 percent of their score ... so students from both high schools and secondary vocational schools can choose whatever exam they want to take (in order to get into college).
如果把高考作为衡量每个学生的唯一标准，那么高考终将是一场不公平的赛跑。要想让所有人都有机会发光发亮，就必须让他们根据自身优势来选择未来的道路，是跑步还是游泳。我们可以另设职业教育高考，实行“30%文化素质+70%职业技能”的考核方式......这样，普通高中学生和职校学生均可以自由选择参加职教高考和普通高考（目的都是要上大学）。
Su Hua, chairman of the Sichuan Modern Education Group and a member of the CPPCC National Committee
苏华，四川现代教育集团董事长、全国政协委员
Parents have to travel four times a day to ferry their children to and from school, and when school lets out parents are still at work. Parents have to deal with the time conflicts to get their younger children to and from primary schools. This is ... a very common issue that concerns people's livelihoods. I hope efforts can be made to arrange the working hours of parents and the school hours as a whole. In addition, after-school programs can be set up inside the school, and budgets are set aside for such programs.
家长每天光接送孩子就得两个来回，而且孩子放学的时间和家长上班的时间冲突。低年级孩子上学的接送难题是每个家长不得不解决的问题。这也并非某个地区某所学校的个例，而是一个极具普遍性的民生问题。我希望能从国家层面上将大人上下班时间和小学生上下学时间进行综合考虑、协调设置。另外，还可以建立校内托管场所，按接收学生数量定额拨付专项经费。
Yuan Jianghua, an official with the Hebi Finance Bureau in Henan province and an NPC deputy
袁江华，河南省鹤壁市财政局官员、全国人大代表
Many countries, such as France, Japan and the US, celebrate both their own reading festivals and the World Reading Day, and that China should follow the trend, especially when its population reads far less than other countries. Reading plays a critical role in shaping of national literacy and improving people's cultivation.
法国、日本、美国等世界上许多国家既庆祝世界读书日，也拥有各自的国家读书日。中国也应该跟随这一趋势，设立读书日，而且中国人的读书量本来就低于其他国家。阅读直接影响着国民素质与中国的文明崛起。
Zhu Yongxin, deputy secretary general of the CPPCC
朱永新，全国政协副秘书长
The majority of Chinese middle school students are suffering from lack of sleep every day, and this could hurt their health. To get their homework done, many students cannot go to bed until 11 pm or even later. And they have to get up around 5:30 am to ensure they get to school before 7 am. Under pressure from their parents, teachers or even themselves, many students sacrifice their sleep for good performances on tests. I suggest schools start classes after 7:30 am, and nail down a deadline for when students must be dismissed.
很多中学生每天睡得都不够，这样下去身体迟早会垮掉。现在的中学生起得早，睡得晚，不少学生为完成当日作业，晚上过了11点，甚至过了12点才能入寝，第二天一早5点半又要艰难地爬起来，保证7点之前就得到校。在老师、家长和自己的重压下，为了在考试中取得好成绩，很多学生都不惜牺牲自己的睡眠时间来学习。我建议将中学生早晨到校的时间推迟到7:30，并且要规定最晚的放学时间，任何学生不得留校。
Dong Hengyu, member of the CPPCC National Committee and member of the Standing Committee of the China Democratic League Central Committee
董恒宇，全国政协委员、民盟中央常委
Currently, the biggest concern and challenge for the Ministry of Education is the safety of students. We have more than 200 million students across the country and we care about every one of them. Any accident befalling one of our students breaks our hearts. Keeping them safe requires the participation of the whole of society - families, schools and the government - working together. All of us should shoulder the responsibility of ensuring students' safety so that they can grow up to be the country's future.
现在教育部面临的最大压力就是学生安全问题。2亿多学生，每一个孩子的安全都让人十分牵挂。每一次事件的发生都让人十分痛心。这些情况需要政府、学校、家庭、社会共同努力，为孩子安全健康负起责任，为他们成为国家栋梁之材保驾护航。
Yuan Guiren, minister of education
袁贵仁，教育部部长
A shortage of talented people who are specialized in the repair and restoration of cultural relics poses a challenge for the preservation of our cultural heritage. China has more than 2 million cultural relics that are in need of repair but there are only around 400 people working in the field, which has not yet established a professional title evaluation system. The human resources and social security authorities should grant professional titles to them and increase their income to prevent a brain drain.
中国从事古物修复的专业人才十分短缺，这是对我国文化遗产保护的一大挑战。中国目前需要修复的文物多达200多万件，但从事文物修复工作的人员才400人左右，而且这个行业没有相应的职称评定体系。我建议人力资源部与社会保障局对全国古物修复人员给予职称，并且增加员工工资，以防止人才流失。
Su Shishu, member of the CPPCC National Committee and chairman of China Calligraphers Association
苏士澍，全国政协委员、中国书法协会主席
As an educator with more than 40 years of experience, I believe that family is the first school for children. Parents are the first teachers for their children, and family education is vital in terms of cultivating children's minds and adaptability. I suggest parents should devote more time to family education instead of too much time and money in choosing the best schools.
到今年，我做教育做了40年，集40年之经验，我可以非常负责任的跟大家说，家庭是孩子的第一所学校，父母是孩子的第一任老师。家庭教育在培养孩子的意识观念和适应能力上起着至关重要的作用。所以我建议家长把更多的时间花在家庭教育上，而不是花费时间和金钱选择最好的学校。
Liu Changming, member of the CPPCC National Committee and president of Beijing No 4 Middle School
刘长铭，全国政协委员、北京四中校长
Many books are high-priced, which presents a heavy burden for many people, such as migrant workers and college students. I suggest the country levy a high tax on luxury goods but a low tax on goods consumed by the general public. For example, badminton could be tax-free, and a high tax could be applied to golf.
现在书价高了，让不少群体买书产生了困难，比如进城务工人员、贫困大学生等。我建议，满足大众消费的中低档文化产品可以不征税或者少征税。就像买羽毛球的可以不收税，买高尔夫的收重税。
Eryuehe, writer and NPC deputy
二月河，作家、全国人大代表
Education now only accounts for 4 percent of the country's total expenditures. By comparison, the figure in some developed countries is around 10 percent. We also have a sore lack of government investment in preschool eduction, which should be enhanced in the future.
目前，教育在我们国家总支出中仅占4%。相比之下，一些发达国家在教育方面的支出达10%左右。政府在学前教育方面的资金投入严重缺乏，今后亟待改善。
He Youlin, an NPC deputy and former principal of Sun Yat-sen Memorial Middle School in Guangdong province
贺优琳，全国人大代表、原广东省中山纪念中学校长
There are hundreds of thousands of Chinese students studying abroad every year. However, the majority of destinations are developed countries in Europe and the United States. They know little about the history, society, culture and religious situations of the less-developed countries along the routes of the Belt and Road in Asia, Africa and Latin America. The amount of talent with a good understanding of countries along the routes needs to increase for Chinese investors to go global.
中国每年有成千上万名学生出国留学。但是，主要的留学国家大都是欧美发达国家。“一带一路”沿线经过了许多亚洲、非洲以及拉丁美洲等地的欠发达国家，但中国学生对这些国家的历史、社会、文化和宗教信仰状况都缺乏了解。需要大力培养对“一带一路”沿线国家有充分认识的人才，为中国投资者迈向世界助一臂之力。
Wan Jifei, CPPCC member and former chairman of the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade
万季飞，全国政协委员、中国国际贸易促进委员会原会长
