For many years, Leah Dou’s biggest claim to fame was being the daughter of musicians Faye Wong and Dou Wei. Only recently has the 19-year-old stepped out of her parents’ shadows, by starting her own career in the Mando-pop world.
多年来，窦靖童的名气来自于她的父母——歌手王菲和窦唯。不久前，这位19岁少女正式进军华语乐坛，开启了自己的歌唱事业，逐渐摆脱父母的光环。
Her debut album Stone Café, released on April 22, features 11 songs that Dou wrote in English – an artistic choice seemingly aimed at shirking mainstream acceptance in her native China. And yet, Stone Café has succeeded in attracting widespread attention, in part thanks to Dou’s musical pedigree.
4月22日，她发行了自己的首张专辑《石头咖啡馆》，该专辑收录了窦靖童创作的11首英文歌曲。选择英文歌似乎出于艺术方面的考虑，试图逃避融入中国主流（音乐）。可是《石头咖啡馆》还是成功吸引了大众的广泛关注，成功的部分原因可能要归功于窦靖童的身份。
Critics and listeners alike have praised Dou’s creativity and vocal range, but still, she undisputedly owes some of her popularity to her pop diva mother and her rock star father, both legendary in their respective fields.
乐评人和乐迷们一致盛赞窦靖童的创造力和音域，但是不可否认，她之所以如此受欢迎和她的天后老妈和摇滚老爸不无关系。他们都是各自的领域里的传奇人物。
Dou has struck out on her own musical path though, leaning heavily toward niche genres. “Her music merges together the characteristics of alternative pop in the 1990s and the elements of modern indie pop,” a music critic wrote under the pen name Aidiren in his review for the Beijing Times.
尽管如此，窦靖童却选择了属于自己的音乐之路，风格偏向于小众音乐。笔名爱地人的乐评人在《新京报》的一篇评论上写道：“她的音乐融合了20世纪90年代另类流行音乐的特点和现代独立流行乐的元素。”
She has also been uncompromising when it comes to her artistic vision, at least publicly. Her songs are not designed to be earworms, tailor-made for heavy rotation on the radio and online.
在艺术视野上，她毫不妥协，至少对外表现出是这样。她的歌不以成洗脑歌为目标，更不去迎合电台、网络热门金曲风格。
Even Dou’s mother focused on traditional, plaintive love songs such as Vulnerable Woman (《容易受伤的女人》) to build her fan base early in her career, before she transformed into an eccentric songstress. Dou skipped this process altogether.
就连她的妈妈王菲在转型为特立独行的歌手之前，也曾专注于传统的伤心情歌（如《容易受伤的女人》）为自己建立粉丝基础。窦靖童完全跳过了这一步。
“I only care about conveying what I feel like in my music,” she told Southern Metropolis Daily. “If something I want to write happens to be widely accepted, that’s good. But if not, I just don’t care.”
Even her public image is at odds with the mainstream. Large swaths of the Chinese public hold conservative opinions about gender, but Dou nevertheless dresses in a bold, androgynous fashion. She cropped her hair and dyed it pink, and both her arms have tattoos.
她的公众形象也和主流毫不沾边。大部分中国公众的性别观念还很保守，但窦靖童的衣着却走的是大胆中性时尚风。她剪了短发，还把头发染成粉红色，她的双臂上都有纹身。
Dou’s album is named after a college canteen named Stone Café, which was located upstairs from one of her classes when she was enrolled in a California arts school in 2013. She spent her time there exploring various types of music. Most of the songs on her album were composed during that time. Writing in English was more “comfortable”, she told the newspaper.
窦靖童的新专辑取名自一家名为石头咖啡馆的大学餐厅，这家咖啡馆在她2013年入学的加州艺术学院的教室楼上。她在这里花了不少时间学习各种类型的音乐。专辑中的大部分歌曲也是在这一时期创作的。用英语创作更“舒服”，她告诉《南都》记者。
However, listening to English might not be as comfortable for Chinese listeners. It remains to be seen whether Mando-pop fans will embrace Dou’s unique brand of music, with the same level of enthusiasm that propelled her parents to stardom.
不过对中国听众来说，听英语可能就不那么舒服了。华语乐迷会不会像推崇她的父母那样接受窦靖童独特的音乐风格，还有待观察。
