When you have a moment of downtime, what is the first thing you do?
停机时,你要做的第一件事是什么?
If you are like everyone else, without thinking, you reflexively pull out your phone.
如果你和其他人一样,不加思考,你本能地就会把手机拿出来。
However, the more important question is, “What are you doing on your phone when you turn it on?”
然而,更重要的问题是,“当你打开手机时，你在做什么?”
Is Your Phone a Tool or a Toy?
你的手机是个工具还是一个玩具呢?
Recent data shows that the average iPhone user unlocks his or her iPhone over 80 times per day.
最近的数据显示,iPhone用户平均每天80多次打开他或她的iPhone。
That’s a lot of phone time.
这是一个很多电话的时间。
But, is it useful phone time? Are you getting anything done or are you mindlessly surfing?
但是,这些时间都是有用的吗?你是什么事情还是只是盲目的在网上闲逛?
I’d be willing to bet that most people waste more time with their phone than they accomplish with it. Is your phone a time waster or a time saver?
我愿意打赌,比起他们用手机做完工作，大多数人都是在手机上浪费更多的时间。你的手机是打发时间还是节省时间?
Here are 10 Productive Activities You Can Do On Your Phone:
下面列举了你能用手机完成的10项工作：
Plan Your Day – Rather than surfing the Net, take the time to plan your day. Check your calendar for appointments and obligations. Where do you need to be and when? What could you confirm while you have some wait time?
计划你的一天——而不是上网,花时间去计划你的一天。检查你的日历预约和工作责任。你有等待时间时，你能确认些什么？
Review Your Todo List – For a todo list to be effective, it must always be with you. You always have your phone with you, so this is a natural place to track your tasks. So, instead of reading social media, check your todo list to see what you should be doing right now.
回顾你的待办事项列表——一个代办事项列表是有效的,它必须一直与你同在。你总是随身携带电话,这是一个记录工作的自然方式。不是浏览社交媒体,而是检查你的待办事项列表,看看你现在应该做的。
Capture Ideas – Your phone may not be a word-processing device, but it is great for capturing ideas and notes. I use Apple Notes to capture all kinds of ideas and information. As well, I use Ulysses for all my writing needs. Both of these sync from my phone to my desktop, so I have my information and writings no matter where I am.
记录想法——你的电话可能不是一个文字处理设备,但它非常适合捕捉想法和记笔记。我用苹果笔记捕捉各种各样的想法和信息。同样,我用于《尤利西斯》写作的需要。这会保持电话和电脑中信息的同步,无论我在哪里，我都能看到我的信息和我的作品。
Process email – Don’t read email on your phone. (And then leave it in your inbox.) Instead, process email on your phone. I find that acting on email can be more effective on your phone than on your desktop. Spark email is on of the best email platforms I have seen.
处理电子邮件——不要在手机上阅读电子邮件。(然后把它放在你的收件箱。)相反,在手机上处理电子邮件。我发现在手机上处理电子邮件比在电脑上更高效。火花邮件是我见过最好的电子邮件平台。
Read a book – I stopped buying hard copy books a while ago. Yet, I carry dozens with me daily on the Kindle app on my iPhone. Always have a few books ready for when you have down time. Better to read something meaningful than surf the latest news or Facebook posts.
读书----我不再购买纸质书籍。然而,我在我的iPhone上随身携带着许多日常Kindle程序。一定要在你有空的时候准备几本书在手机上。读一些有意义的书籍，而不是在网上闲逛或看Facebook帖子的最新消息。
Shop – Wait, how can shopping be productive? When it saves you from running errands. Five minutes on Amazon yesterday saved me an hour of running about town.
购物---等等，怎样才能让购物变得更高效?当它可以节省你走路时。五分钟在昨天在亚马逊网站商城上用了五分钟就省了我跑步到城镇的一个小时时间。
Listen to a Podcast – Always be learning by listening to a podcast about something that interests you. I use Overcast to keep all my podcasts at the ready.
听播客-----总是听些你感兴趣的东西。我使用overcast播客播放器做好所有播客的准备。
Call Someone – Believe it or not, one of the least used features of our phones is to actually call someone. Yet, this can be one of the most effective ways to reach out and connect with someone. Or to get business done. Don’t be afraid to pick up the phone and talk to someone instead of sending a text. You’ll be amazed how a two minute conversation can get more done than dozens of back-and-forth messages.
打电话---信不信由你,我们的手机使用的最基本功能之一就是打电话。还有,这可能是接触和联系的人最有效的方法之一。或者完成业务。不要害怕拿起电话跟别人交流，而不是发送文本。你将会惊奇地发现,两分钟的谈话的效果可以超过几十条来回的消息。
Run Your Business – Our phones are more powerful than ever, you can run an entire business on one. I regularly check up on work statuses: projects, communication, and even financials .
经营生意---我们的手机比以前更高级了，你可以用来运行一个完整的业务。我经常用来检查工作状态:项目、沟通,甚至管理资金。
Write in Your Journal – While on the go can be a great time to write in your journal. When you have a free moment, jot something down in your journal while it is still fresh in your mind.
写日志----在路上也成为一个写日记的好时机。当你有空的时候,在你对这些事情记得非常清楚的时候记些东西记在你的日记里,它仍然是新鲜的在你的脑海里。
Be Productive with Your Phone
用你的手机高效的工作
Next time you pull out your phone and unlock it, think twice about what you will be doing with it.
下次你拿出你的手机解锁时,想想你要做什么。
Will you waste time surfing meaningless online information?
你会把时间浪费在浏览无意义的在线信息?
Or will you actually get something productive done?
或者你真的会用来完成工作?
