Donald Trump has accused Nicola Sturgeon of failing to appreciate his greatness, after the Scottish government dropped the US presidential candidate as a business ambassador on the grounds that he is a bigot.
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)指责苏格兰首席大臣尼古拉斯特金(Nicola Sturgeon)未能认识到他的伟大，此前苏格兰政府以特朗普顽固狭隘为由，取消了他作为苏格兰商业大使的头衔。
The mogul on Thursday hit back at his mother’s homeland after Ms Sturgeon, first minister, stripped Mr Trump of his “GlobalScot” ambassador status and Aberdeen’s Robert Gordon University revoked an honorary degree.
这位房地产大亨周四对他母亲的出生地予以还击，此前斯特金取消了他作为“GlobalScot”大使的头衔，阿伯丁的罗伯特戈登大学(Robert Gordon University)还取消了特朗普的荣誉学位。
“The UK politicians should be thanking me instead of pandering to political correctness”, Mr Trump said, adding: “I have done so much for Scotland.”
“英国政治人士应该感谢我而不是迎合政治正确，”特朗普表示，他补充称：“我为苏格兰做了那么多。”
Mr Trump this week called for Muslims to be banned from entering the US, provoking global outrage — a UK petition calling for him to be banned from the country had more than 440,000 signatures by Thursday afternoon. That made it the most popular campaign ever on the government’s website.
特朗普本周呼吁禁止穆斯林进入美国，这引发了全球各界的愤怒，一项英国请愿活动呼吁禁止他进入英国，截至周四下午请愿已获得超过44万人签名，这令其成为英国政府网站上最受欢迎的请愿活动。
Writing in the Press & Journal newspaper, Mr Trump cited his Scottish golf interests: the Trump International Golf Links course near Aberdeen and his 200m investment in the Trump Turnberry resort on the Ayrshire coast.
特朗普在Press & Journal报纸上发文指出了他在苏格兰的高尔夫球场业务：位于阿伯丁附近的Trump International Golf Links球场以及在苏格兰埃尔郡海岸的Trump Turnberry度假酒店的2亿英镑投资。
“If they — Nicola Sturgeon and RGU — were going to do this, they should have informed me before my major investment in this 200m development, which will totally revitalise that vast region of Scotland”, he said.
Mr Trump added that in calling for “a total and complete shutdown” of the US to the world’s estimated 1.6bn Muslims, he “only said what needed to be said”, adding that many of his friends are Muslim.
特朗普补充称，他呼吁“完全且彻底禁止”全球16亿穆斯林进入美国，“只是说了必须要说的话”，他补充称，他的很多朋友都是穆斯林。
Mr Trump’s “recent remarks have shown he is no longer fit to be a business ambassador for Scotland”, according to Scottish government spokesperson.
苏格兰政府发言人表示，特朗普“最近的言论表明他不再适合担任苏格兰商业大使”。
The presidential candidate was appointed as a GlobalScot ambassador in 2006 by then first minister Jack McConnell.
2006年，特朗普被时任苏格兰首席大臣的杰克麦康奈尔(Jack McConnell)任命为“GlobalScot”大使。
At the time, Mr Trump, whose mother hailed from the Isle of Lewis, said that “part of my achievement can be attributed to my Scottish roots”.
