Nationwide is raising its age limit for people paying off mortgages by 10 years to 85, in the latest sign of the impact of rising house prices on buyers.
英国房价上涨的影响再显现：全英房屋抵押贷款协会近日将英国居民还清房贷的年龄上限延长了10年，至85岁。
The building society said the increase was due to "growing demand", and the limit would be in force from July.
该协会称，此次调整源于“不断增长的购房需求”。新政将于今年7月开始实施。
It means a 60-year-old could take out a 25-year mortgage as long as they prove they can afford the repayments.
这就意味着，只要能证明自己可以还得清，一个65岁的人可以申请长达25年的房屋抵押贷款。
The move comes as Halifax increases its age limit for mortgages from 75 to 80 from Monday.
就在本周一（5月9日），Halifax（英国最大按揭贷款机构）刚刚将办理房屋抵押贷款的年龄上限由75岁提高至80岁。
There have been calls for the industry to do more to help older buyers after tougher mortgage checks, introduced in the wake of the financial crisis, have made it harder for middle-aged people to get a home loan.
金融危机发生后，房屋抵押贷款门槛提高，导致中年人越发难以获得购房贷款，因此就有声音呼吁房地产业为大龄购房者争取权益。
'Controlled manner'
当局称新政很“节制”
Rising house prices have exacerbated the issue, with many people not able to afford to buy their first home until they are in their thirties or forties.
不断上涨的房价进一步恶化了这个问题，因为很多人得等到30多岁甚至40多岁的时候，才能买得起首套房。
Nationwide said the new age limit would apply to existing customers for all its standard mortgages, but the maximum loan size would be ￡150,000, and could be no greater than 60% of the property value.
全英房屋抵押贷款协会称，新的年龄上限适用于所有正在申请标准型抵押贷款的购房者，贷款额上限为15万英镑，且不高于房屋总价的60%。
"Access to the mainstream market has been a challenge for older customers, resulting in their needs going unfulfilled. This measure helps to address these needs in a prudent, controlled manner," said Nationwide head of mortgages Henry Jordan.
全英房屋抵押贷款协会贷款主管亨利·乔丹表示：“大龄购房者想进入主流购房市场很难，致使他们的需求得不到满足。这项新政以谨慎、节制的方式，满足了这部分需求。”
Tom McPhail, head of pensions research at Hargreaves Lansdown, told the BBC the change could shake up the mortgage market.
兰斯多恩股票经纪公司退休金研究主管汤姆·麦克菲尔告诉BBC，这项改变可能重新洗牌房贷市场。
"Why pay off the mortgage at all?" he said.
"As long as the value of the property is there to meet the liability in the future, why worry about paying it off when you are alive?" he added.
House prices grew 7.6% in the year to February, official statistics suggest.
官方数据显示，今年前两个月，英国房价上涨了7.6%。
'Longer'
“寿命延长”是主因
And a recent survey by Halifax suggested that one in three 20- to 45-year-olds expected to be working beyond their retirement age to pay off their mortgage.
Halifax近日的一项调查显示，为了还房贷，三分之一20至45岁的购房人可能不得不延迟退休。
Halifax said its decision was a response to changing demographics, with people living and working for longer.
Halifax称，它的决定（提高贷款年龄上限）源于人口结构的变化——人们的寿命和工作时间都延长了。
The policies of rival mortgage lenders for older borrowers varies. Santander, for example, says 75 is its cut-off while RBS' upper age limit is 70.
其他房贷发放机构针对大龄人士的购房政策不尽相同。以Santander银行为例，它的年龄上限是75，而苏格兰皇家银行的上限是70。
HSBC says it does not turn down mortgages on the basis of age, but reviews applications of those over 75 on "a case by case basis".
汇丰银行称自己不会以年龄为由拒绝向外贷款，但对于75岁以上年龄的申请者，在评估时会“具体问题具体分析”。
At Barclays the upper age limit is 70, or the customer's retirement date - whichever is sooner.
巴克莱银行的年龄上限是70岁，或者是申请者的退休时间——以先到期的那个为准。
