 Beijing has the world’s least affordable rental housing, according to a survey of 15 global cities, with average prices more than 1.2 times average salaries.
 根据英国非营利性组织“全球城市商业联盟”(Global Cities Business Alliance)对全球15个城市的调查，北京房租负担排名全球首位，其平均房租是平均工资的1.2倍以上。
 The report by the Global Cities Business Alliance, a UK-based not-for-profit organisation, raises fears over inclusive growth in a city that — according to one Chinese survey — this year surpassed New York to become the world’s billionaire capital.
 这份报告对北京的包容性增长提出了担忧。而据中国一项调查显示，北京今年已超过纽约，成为全球亿万富豪之都。
 Soaring house prices, which rose 18 per cent in the year to March, and restrictions on non-residents buying houses until they have paid tax in Beijing for five years, make renting the only option for many of the city’s young adults and migrant workers.
 截至3月份，北京房价今年已上涨18%。房价的飙升，加上外地户口必须在北京连续纳税5年才能购房，使租房成了北京许多年轻人和外来务工人员的唯一选择。
 “From an urban planning perspective, Beijing could be the most inefficient city in China,” said Liang Hong, chief economist of China International Capital Corporation. “The problem is on the land supply side. Central government organisations, such as the military and state-owned enterprises, take up a large portion of land in prime locations.”
 中金公司(CICC)首席经济学家梁红表示：“从城市规划角度来看，北京可能是中国最没有效率的城市。问题出在土地供应方面。黄金地段的很大一部分土地都被中央政府机构，比如部队和国有企业给占用了。”
 Beijing rent is nearly twice as expensive as its closest challenger, Abu Dhabi, according to the survey.
 根据该调查，北京房租之高几乎是排名第二的阿布扎比的两倍。
 High rents and urban inequality lead to longer commutes for service-sector workers who deliver location-specific services. The study found that hospital nurses, primary schoolteachers and bus drivers all faced rents of between 1.1 and 1.5 times their incomes.
 高房租和城市发展的不均衡，延长了那些在固定场所上班的服务业员工的通勤时间。该调查发现，医院护士、小学教师和公交司机的房租是他们收入的1.1倍到1.5倍。
 Beijing scored the second-longest commute, at an average of 104 minutes per round-trip, behind Mexico City at 113 minutes.
 北京的通勤时长也排到全球第二，平均往返时间为104分钟，第一名为墨西哥城，其平均往返时间为113分钟。
 “The wealthiest workers will always be able to afford to live in the biggest cities, but the danger is that talented workers starting their careers in many sectors will find themselves priced out,” said Lesley Saville, GCBA chief executive.
 全球城市商业联盟首席执行官莱斯利•萨维尔(Lesley Saville)表示：“最富有的员工总是住得起大城市，但危险的是在许多行业，刚参加工作的优秀员工发现他们负担不起房租。”
 Rural-urban migration has put pressure on the rental market, especially as Beijing's neighbouring northern provinces lose their traditional industries of coal and steel. The city’s metropolitan area has doubled in population in the past 20 years.
 农村人口进城，尤其是北京北方相邻省份失去了煤炭和钢铁等传统产业，给北京租房市场带来了压力。过去二十年北京都市区人口增加了一倍。
 Statistics released on Wednesday from the 2015 population survey showed that migration within China had increased 12 per cent from the 2010 national census.
 周三公布的2015年人口调查统计数据显示，中国的流动人口比2010年人口普查时增加了12%。
 High rental prices damage the economy by locking up consumer spending power, the report argues, finding that a further 10 per cent rise in rental prices would suck up about $3.5bn of consumption.
 该报告认为高房租锁定了消费能力，对经济造成损害，并表示房租再上涨10%，消费就会减少35亿美元。
