The final series of ITV's Downton Abbey has won best drama for the fourth time in five years at the 2016 National Television Awards.
英剧《唐顿庄园》最后一季获得2016年英国国家电视奖最佳剧情奖，这是该剧五年内第四次获奖。《唐顿庄园》由英国独立电视台（ITV）出品。
Star Hugh Bonneville thanked the drama's creator, Julian Fellowes, for "giving us wonderful lines to say".
该剧演员休·邦尼维尔感谢编剧朱利安·费罗斯“为我们设计了如此精彩绝伦的台词”。
BBC drama Doctor Foster collected two awards - best new drama and best drama performance for its star Suranne Jones.
BBC出品的《福斯特医生》将两枚奖项收入囊中：最佳新剧奖以及演员苏兰·琼斯的最佳表演奖。
The pregnant actress joked she was missing an antenatal class to attend the ceremony.
身怀六甲的苏兰·琼斯笑称为了参加颁奖典礼她还翘了一节胎教课。
"If anyone wants to send me tips on how to give birth that would be useful," she said as she collected the award, thanking the drama's writer, Mike Bartlett, for creating "a complex" character.
她在领奖时说：“大家如果对于生产有什么好的建议，多多益善。”此外她对编剧麦克·巴特利特创造了这样一个“复杂多变”的人物形象表示了感谢。
BBC soap EastEnders was also a double award winner. It beat rivals Coronation Street, Emmerdale and Hollyoaks to receive the prize for best serial drama.
BBC肥皂剧《伦敦东区》同样将两枚奖项收入囊中。该剧打败了竞争对手《加冕街》、《艾玛镇》和《圣橡镇少年》，获得了最佳连续剧奖。
Danny Dyer also received the best serial drama performance prize for a second consecutive year for his role as Mick Carter in the programme.
丹尼·戴尔因其在该剧中扮演米克·卡特一角，继去年收获最佳连续剧表演奖后再次将该奖收入囊中。
"I'm so honoured to be part of such a sublime and depressing programme that is EastEnders," he said while collecting his award.
“能够参与拍摄《伦敦东区》这样一部崇高而又沉重的电视剧，我深感荣幸。”丹尼在领奖时如此说道。
Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly were named best TV presenter for the 15th consecutive year.
安东尼·麦克帕特林和迪克兰·唐纳利连续第十五年获得最佳电视节目主持人奖。
"It's getting a bit mental now," McPartlin said, "but we thank you from the bottom of our hearts."
“虽然领这个奖已经有点秀逗了，但我们仍然发自内心地感谢大家。”麦克帕特林说道。
Donnelly added: "People ask us does it get boring or old - of course it doesn't. If anything our gratitude has grown over the years as you never know when you're going to get it again."
唐纳利补充说：“大家问我们会不会觉得领这个奖已经变得无聊或老套了，我们的答案当然是否定的。这么多年来，我们的感激之情只会与日俱增，因为你永远都不知道何时才能再次享此殊荣。”
Ant and Dec show I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! won best entertainment—an award it has won every year since 2011.
安东尼和唐纳利的节目《我是名人……让我离开这里！》获得了最佳娱乐节目奖，自2011年起该档节目每年都把这项奖揽入怀中。
BBC One show The Great British Bake Off was also named best challenge show for a second consecutive year.
BBC One的节目《英国家庭烘焙大赛》也连续第二年获得了最佳挑战类节目奖。
Collecting the award, judge Paul Hollywood said the last series was "the best year we've ever had - the bakers were the best".
该节目的裁判保罗·好莱坞在领奖时说这档节目的最新一季是“我们有史以来最精彩的一季——烘焙家们都棒呆了。”
Peter Kay's Car Share beat Benidorm, Birds Of A Feather and Not Going Out to win best comedy.
《和皮特·凯拼车》打败了《度假笑传》、《一丘之貉》和《宅男不出门》赢得了最佳喜剧奖。
Kay dedicated the award to Scottish comic Billy Connolly, "my comedy hero".
凯却把此奖献给了苏格兰喜剧演员比利·康诺利：“他是我的喜剧英雄。”
Connolly was presented with the special recognition award at the ceremony in honour of his 50-year career.
康诺利获得了特别荣誉奖，旨在向他五十年的演艺生涯致敬。
Introduced by his friend and Oscar-winning actor Dustin Hoffman, the star paid tribute to the comic, describing him as "an artist in the truest sense of the word".
颁奖嘉宾是他的朋友、曾获奥斯卡奖的演员达斯汀·霍夫曼，他向康诺利致敬，称他是“世界上最最当之无愧的艺术家”。
He said: "Audiences return and new generations come to him not because he makes them laugh, but because he has the gift of inviting everyone uncritically, unconditionally, into his world.
他说：“老观众们一直支持他的作品，而新观众们也不断为他所吸引，这不是因为他能让我们捧腹大笑，而是因为他拥有这样一种天赋，能引领每一个人毫无保留、毫无条件地进入他的世界。”
"He exposes truth - no one looks at the world like he does; he turns the ordinary to the extraordinary and he elevates the mundane to the magnificent in the bravest of fashions."
“他总能揭露真相，看待世界的视角也与他人不同；在他那里，平凡能化身卓越，世俗能化身高尚，且其手法大胆前卫。”
Receiving two standing ovations from the audience, the star joked as he walked on stage: "I'd like to thank the Catholic Church for the rhythm method of birth control—without which I wouldn't be here at all."
观众们前后两次起立鼓掌，康诺利在登台时调侃道：“我要感谢天主教堂采取措施控制人口数量，不然我今天就不可能站在这儿了。”
He joked with Kay for dedicating his best comedy prize to him, but then not giving the physical award away to him - prompting Kay to climb the stage to hand it over.
他还调侃了凯，说他把最佳喜剧奖献给自己，却没把奖品交过来，于是凯连忙上台呈上了自己的奖品。
Other winners included X Factor winner-turned actor Shayne Ward, who was voted best newcomer for his role as Aidan Connor in Coronation Street.
其他获奖者有：在《X音素》上获胜出道并转型成演员的肖恩·沃德，他凭借在《加冕街》中饰演的爱丹·康纳一角被评为最佳新人奖。
Strictly Come Dancing won best talent show, with This Morning named best live magazine.
《舞动奇迹》获得了最佳才艺节目奖，《早间新闻》则获得了最佳实况杂志奖。
The best factual entertainment award went to Gogglebox, quiz show The Chase won best daytime and US sitcom The Big Bang Theory won best international programme.
最佳纪实娱乐奖花落《影视看台》，智力问答节目《追击》获得最佳日间节目奖，美国情景喜剧《生活大爆炸》则获最佳国际影视剧目奖。
A new award was also created this year - the impact award for best TV moment. It went to Aidan Turner for his torso-revealing turn as Ross Poldark in the Cornish-set BBC drama series Poldark.
此外今年还设立了一个新奖项：最佳电视镜头奖。该奖项花落艾丹·特纳，他在BBC电视剧系列《波尔达克》中扮演了罗斯·波尔达克一角，获奖的镜头是他展露其矫健身材的时刻。
