A school has been forced to 'ban' pupils from bringing 'inappropriate' designer handbags to lessons. Teachers at All Saints' Academy in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, claim the luxury items are not suitable for carrying A4 files, textbooks and PE kits.
位于英国格洛斯特郡切尔滕纳姆市的万圣中学禁止学生携带“不适用”的名牌手提包上课。该校老师称，奢侈手包并不适合学生，学生书包是用来装A4大小的文件，课本和体育用品的。
Some of the 900 students who arrived for the new term on January 5 with new bags from designers including Ted Baker, which can cost up to ￡289, were told to bring a rucksack the next day.
1月5日，新学期开学之际，900名学生开始返校上课。当天学校要求一些携带名牌包的学生次日改换帆布背包来上课。其中有学生手提包出自泰德·贝克（英国著名的设计师品牌），价格高达289英镑。
But parents at the church school, which opened in 2011, said the clampdown was 'pathetic' and argued that many designer bags are perfectly functional.
这是一所于2011年开办的教会学校。有学生家长称，禁止名牌包的规定是“无理取闹”的，他们反倒认为，大多数的名牌包的功能都是完全符合上学需要的。
One mother, Martine Allen, claimed her teenage daughter was given a warning over her new ￡39 pink Ted Baker shopping bag.
一位32岁的母亲玛蒂娜·艾伦称自己为十多岁的女儿新买了个泰德·贝克的粉色购物包，价格为39英镑，结果受到学校警告，称不允许带去学校。
The 32-year-old said: 'I fully understand and totally agree with the handbag situation going on.
艾伦说道：“我完全理解，并也十分赞同学校关于名牌手提包的规定。”
'[But] my daughter's bag is 36cm in height and width and a 15cm depth. It can carry all her books, PE kit, lunch, in it at once.
“但是，我给女儿买的手提包容量较大，包的高宽均为36厘米，包内深15厘米，可以一次性装入所有课本、体育用品和午饭。”
'In my sense [it] is fully reasonable for her school equipment. She now has to take a Jack Wills rucksack which doesn't fit half of what she needs in it and it is a named bag.'
“我觉得女儿背这包上学再合适不过了。可她现在得背着一个杰克威尔的帆布包上学。而这个帆布包同样是个名牌包，但只能装下一半她上学需要的东西。”
The headteacher, Dermot McNiffe, issued the handbag warning to pupils in a letter to parents on December 18 last year, as well as banning mobiles during school hours.
去年12月18日，该学校校长德莫特·麦克尼夫在给家长的信函通知上宣布了学校禁止学生使用名牌手提袋以及在校期间使用手机的规定。
Photographs of the kind of bags he deemed suitable and the kind of designer handbags he did not were included in the letter.
同时，信上附上了一些书包照片，其中包括他认为上学适用的书包以及不适合上学期间携带的名牌包。
He wrote: 'A school bag is an essential item for all our students.
他写道：“书包是所有学生必须配备的。”
'In keeping with our policy on excellent standards of uniform, we are requesting students use an appropriate bag for school that will contain books and folders of an A4 size.
“按照学校行为规范统一的标准，要求学生上学携带适用的书包来装纳书本和A4大小的活页夹。”
'We have identified that there has been a lack of clarity on the type of bag to use for school, which has resulted in some students using designer handbags which are not appropriate for carrying exercise and text books to school.
“我们发现，学校对于上学用的书包类型规定比较模糊，这导致部分学生携带名牌手提包上学，而这类包并不适合装纳学生的作业本和课本。“
'Many thanks for your continued support in helping All Saints' Academy maintain standards in uniform and expectations for learning.'
“希望家长配合本校，规范学生行为，培育优良学风。非常感谢。”
Parents have since slammed the decision on Facebook.
家长随后纷纷在脸书上抨击学校这一规定。
Annabel Holland wrote: 'Unless they provide every pupil with a school rucksack as part of the uniform I don't see how they can tell you what bag you can and can't take to school.'
安娜贝尔·奥兰德写道：“除非学校给每个学生都发放统一的帆布书包，不然我无法理解学校将如何判断适于上学的书包。”
Tracie Hale added: 'They go to school for an education does it really matter what bag they use. Pathetic really.'
特蕾西·哈勒也说道：“孩子们去学校是为了学习，这与背什么样的包有什么关系？简直无理取闹。”
And Vicki Hodges said: 'They should have stated this before the kids went back in September.
维姬·霍奇斯说：“学校早该在学生九月份开学之前就发布通知。”
'I don't see what the difference is between a River Island hand bag and an Adidas back pack. They've both got brand names on and can both fit school books and folders in.
“我认为River Island（英国最有名的高街时尚品牌之一）的手提包和阿迪达斯背包没有什么区别。既都是名牌，又都能装下课本和活页夹。”
'(It) doesn't affect them learning in the slightest.'
“这一点也不会影响学生的学习。”
It comes after a 13-year-old schoolgirl claimed she was sent home from the school on the first day of term in 2013 because her skirt was 'too stretchy'.
在此之前，有个13岁的女学生称自己在2013年学期开学的第一天就被学校遣送回家了，理由竟是她的裙子弹性太大。
Holly-Mae Donaldson's skirt conflicted with the school's uniform code, which states all skirts must be knee-length without splits or pleats, and must not stretch.
学校规定女生如果着裙装，裙长必须过膝盖，不能有破洞或裙褶，不应有弹力，所以这位名叫霍利·麻衣·唐纳森的女生的裙子不符合学校的着装要求。
Mr McNiffe added: 'School bags are an essential item for all of our students and in keeping with our excellent standards of uniform, we have requested to parents that students use an appropriate school bag.
麦克尼夫还说道：“书包是所有学生必须配备的，按照本校规范统一的标准，要求家长为孩子准备适用的书包。”
'As an Academy we don't consider designer handbags to be appropriate for the school day.
“从学校的立场来看，我们认为名牌包并不适合上学携带。”
'Being properly organised for school with the appropriate equipment and uniform contributes to our focus on a strong learning culture.'
“学校正确地组织学生，规范统一学生学习用品，有利于营造浓厚的学习氛围。”
