David Cameron, the prime minister, was accused of being soft on Moscow after a public inquiry pointed the finger at Russia’s President Vladimir Putin over the 2006 murder of Alexander Litvinenko, the former FSB officer.
英国首相戴维愠蕓伦(David Cameron)被指对莫斯科方面表现软弱，此前一项针对俄罗斯联邦安全局(FSB)前官员亚历山大利特维年科(Alexander Litvinenko) 2006年被杀的公开调查把矛头指向俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔渠京(Vladimir Putin)。
The 328-page report by Sir Robert Owen, released yesterday, said Mr Putin “probably” approved Litvinenko’s assassination, along with Nikolai Patrushev, then head of the FSB intelligence service and still a top Putin confidant.
由罗伯特欧文爵士(Sir Robert Owen)执笔、昨日发布的328页报告称，普京“很可能”批准了暗杀利特维年科，同时批准这一行动的还有时任俄罗斯联邦安全局局长、至今仍是普京亲信的尼古拉帕特鲁舍夫(Nikolai Patrushev)。
The findings threatened to spark a new diplomatic row nine years after the UK expelled several Russian diplomats over Moscow’s refusal to extradite two men whom UK prosecutors have charged with the killing. That prompted tit-for-tat expulsions by Russia.
调查发现可能引发一场新的外交争执。9年前英国驱逐了数名俄罗斯外交官，因为俄政府拒绝引渡两名男子，他们被英国检察官指控参与了这起谋杀案。随后俄罗斯也进行了以牙还牙的驱逐行动。
The report’s publication also comes at a sensitive time for the prime minister and other western leaders who hope Mr Putin will play a key role in brokering a peace deal in the four-year Syrian war.
对于英国首相和其他西方国家领导人来说，这份报告的发布正值一个敏感时刻，他们希望普京能发挥关键作用，撮合结束叙利亚四年内战的和平协议。
Analysts warned the report could also complicate Moscow’s efforts to have western sanctions, imposed over Russia’s intervention in Ukraine, lifted.
分析人士警告称，这份报告还可能令莫斯科解除西方制裁——因俄罗斯干涉乌克兰事务而施加——的努力复杂化。
Sir Robert, a former judge, said he was sure the suspects, Andrei Lugovoi and Dmitry Kovtun, had murdered Litvinenko by slipping the radioactive substance polonium-210 into his tea in London’s Millennium Hotel, probably working under FSB direction.
身为前法官的欧文表示，他确信嫌疑人安德烈戠戈沃伊(Andrei Lugovoi)和德米特里科夫通(Dmitry Kovtun)谋杀了利特维年科，他们在伦敦千禧酒店(Millennium Hotel)将放射性物质钋-210投入被害人的茶水中。这一行动很可能是按照俄罗斯联邦安全局的指示。
He added that “strong circumstantial evidence” plus evidence the inquiry heard in private, including from intelligence sources, pointed to Russian state involvement in what has been called an “act of nuclear terrorism”.
他还表示“强有力的旁证”，加上这场调查在非公开审理期间听取的证据（包括来自情报部门的证据），都指向俄罗斯国家参与了这起被称为“核恐怖主义的行为”。
Sir Robert went much further than expected in suggesting Mr Putin blessed the operation. He said the Russian leader had “supported and protected Mr Lugovoi”, even awarding him a state medal last year, in a way that “suggests a level of approval for the killing”.
欧文得出的结论（普京拍板批准了这一行动）在力度上远远超出了预期。他表示普京曾“支持和保护卢戈沃伊”，甚至在去年授予后者一枚国家勋章，“意味着在某种程度上批准了这一刺杀行动。”
Mr Lugovoi, who is now a Russian MP and like Mr Kovtun has always denied murder, said the inquiry “confirms yet again London’s anti-Russian position [and] closed-mindedness”.
卢戈沃伊现在是俄罗斯国会议员，与科夫通一样，二人一直对谋杀指控予以否认，称这项调查“再次证实了伦敦的反俄立场和成见。”
Dmitry Peskov, the Russian president’s spokesman, said the inquiry was a “joke”, adding: “But you can put that down to subtle British humour, when an open public inquiry hangs on classified information from unnamed intelligence services and is based on prolific use of the words ‘possibly’ and ‘probably’.”
俄罗斯总统发言人德米特里椠斯科夫(Dmitry Peskov)表示，该调查是一个“笑话”，他说：“不过你可以把它看成微妙的英式幽默，一项开放的公开调查依赖从匿名情报机构获得的机密资料，还使用了大量‘也许’、‘很可能’之类的词汇。”
Theresa May, home secretary, said the murder was an “unacceptable breach of international law” and the government would freeze the suspects’ assets. The Foreign Office summoned Russia’s ambassador in London to voice concerns.
英国内政大臣特里萨蔠(Theresa May)表示，这起谋杀案“违反了国际法，是不可接受的”，英国政府将冻结犯罪嫌疑人的资产。英国外交部召见俄罗斯驻伦敦大使表示关注。
Ms May said Mr Cameron would talk to Mr Putin about the inquiry’s findings “at the next available opportunity”.
特里萨蔠桨示，卡梅伦“下次有机会时”将与普京讨论调查结果。
