The bosses of around half of Britain’s 100 biggest companies are to sign a letter backing David Cameron in his fight to keep the country in the EU ahead of a June referendum that will shape the future of the UK.
英国最大的100家企业中近一半企业的老板签署了一封信，以支持戴维愠蕓伦(David Cameron)在今年6月决定英国未来的全民公投前让英国留在欧盟(EU)内的努力。
As opposition within the ruling Conservative party mounted, Downing Street rallied support from corporate leaders at companies including Shell, BAE Systems, BT and Rio Tinto, who will argue in the letter that Britain is “stronger, safer and better off” in a reformed EU.
随着执政的保守党内的反对者增加，唐宁街动员了壳牌(Shell)、BAE系统公司(BAE Systems)、英国电信(BT)和力拓(Rio Tinto)等企业领袖的支持，他们在信中主张，留在一个经过改革的欧盟中，英国将“更强大、更安全、更有利”。
The barrage of support will come as some relief to Mr Cameron after London mayor Boris Johnson yesterday became the highest-profile defector in the party, declaring his support for an exit campaign that — if successful — could topple the prime minister.
在昨日伦敦市长鲍里斯约翰逊(Boris Johnson)成为党内最高调背叛者后，这波支持攻势为卡梅伦提供了些许慰藉。约翰逊公开宣称支持一项退欧运动，这项运动如果成功，可能把卡梅伦赶下首相职位。
The London mayor joins six cabinet ministers, including Mr Cameron’s friend Michael Gove, in the Out camp, with speculation that the number of Conservative MPs opposing the premier was moving towards 150.
伦敦市长加入6名内阁部长级官员的行列加入退欧阵营，其中包括卡梅伦的朋友迈克尔戈夫(Michael Gove)。据猜测，反对首相的保守党议员数量接近150人。
As Mr Cameron tried to defend the EU deal he secured in Brussels, Downing St officials were trying to finalise one of the biggest ever pro-European shows of strength by the business community. A draft letter circulated to business leaders said: “Following the prime minister’s renegotiation we believe that Britain is better off staying in a reformed EU.”
在卡梅伦试图维护他在布鲁塞尔达成的欧盟协议时，唐宁街的官员们正试图完成有史以来规模最大的一次亲欧商界力量的展示。传递给商界领袖的信稿写道：“在首相的重新谈判后，我们相信英国留在改革后的欧盟将更加有利。”
The letter, to be published tomorrow, was said to have the support of about 50 chairmen and chief executives of FTSE 100 companies. Most would sign on behalf of their companies, others in a personal capacity. The letter was also expected to be signed by the bosses of smaller businesses.
据称这封将于明日发表的信件得到了约50名富时100指数(FTSE 100)成分股公司董事长和首席执行官的支持。大多数人将代表他们所在的公司签名，其他人则以个人名义签名。这封信还有望得到一些较小企业领导者的签名。
