A stunning 1960s home that has more windows than walls has been put on the market for 1.4million pounds.
The house in the village of Holyport in Berkshire, is spread over one level and is one of just three remaining that were built by architects Peter Foggo and David Thomas more than 50 years ago.
Boasting four bedrooms, an open plan kitchen, living and dining area, the house features sprawling green gardens and a private gravel driveway.
It is being sold after undergoing a string of extensive renovations by its owners to take advantage of its simplistic foundations. It is within close distance of two Michelin star restaurants including Heston Blumenthal's world famous eatery The Fat Duck.
Designed in the 1960s, it is among a handful of private houses created by Foggo & Thomas who were inspired by Californian architects in their penchant for glass and one-level-living.
The house boasts floor to ceiling windows in every room, with sweeping patio doors making its lush gardens all the more prominent.
Nestled behind electronic gates, the house lies in a ½ acre plot in a Conservation Area of the Green Belt land. Its owner, a 'well respected design and construction figure' has worked on its restoration for several years.
'To rectify the building’s technical deficiencies whilst retaining the visual integrity of the original design became the challenge,' he said.
'This resulted in a major three-year long restoration programme which involved the deconstruction of the building back to the steel structure and replacing the floors, walls, roof and services with materials and products that met with the performance criteria of the 21st century.
'The work employed a number of specialist consultants and technical solutions more commonly employed in high quality office buildings were introduced to solve thermal issues.'
The only materials used throughout the property and its exterior are granite, maple, linoleum, stainless steel, red cedar and painted plaster.
Its four bedrooms feature the same minimalist decor, with white furnishings and pops of colour seen throughout.
The house's entrance is marked by a wide slab of concrete with three steps leading up to its front door. Two simplistic white chairs flank its entrance, with glass walls on two of the house's bedrooms offering views of its interior.
Inside colourful velvet couches and chairs furnish rooms floored in linoleum and maple wood, with black leather touches also seen throughout.
There are no curtains, with white blinds fixed at every window to allow for maximum light.
Speaking of the property, luxury estate agent The Modern House said: 'Great care has been taken to preserve the integrity and forward thinking nature of the original, influential design whilst also significantly improving the energy efficiency of the building.'
