Apple’s share price fell to its lowest level since October 2014, as concerns about slowing growth in iPhone sales outweighed news of strong performance in the App Store last year.
苹果(Apple)股价跌至2014年10月以来的最低水平。各方对iPhone销售增长放缓的担忧盖过了去年苹果应用商店App Store表现强劲的消息。
Shares in the world’s most valuable company fell close to $100 yesterday morning, compounding Tuesday’s falls after the Nikkei Asian Review wrote that Apple had cut iPhone orders by as much as 30 per cent with suppliers.
继周二苹果股价因《日经亚洲评论》(Nikkei Asian Review)报道苹果削减了多达30%的iPhone供应商订单而下跌后，昨日早盘期间这家全球市值最高的公司股价再次下跌，接近每股100美元。
Concerns were compounded by comments from Foxconn, a leading iPhone manufacturer, that it had been offered local government subsidies to maintain staffing levels, despite cutting production.
iPhone领先制造商富士康(Foxconn)的评论使外界的担忧进一步加深。该公司称，尽管减产，但当地政府在为富士康提供补贴以维持该公司的雇工水平。
“Foxconn confirms that our company has received financial incentives as part of an ongoing programme by the Henan department of human resources,” the company said.
“富士康证实，作为河南人力资源厅正在进行的一个项目的一部分，我们公司接受了财政激励，”富士康表示。
“The incentives were provided to Foxconn in recognition of our company’s contributions to maintaining our significant workforce at our Zhengzhou facility.”
“这些提供给富士康的激励是为了表彰我们公司维持郑州工厂庞大的雇工水平所做的贡献。”
The subsidies were reported by the Wall Street Journal, which said Foxconn had dismissed workers earlier than usual ahead of the Chinese new year.
富士康接受补贴一事是《华尔街日报》(WSJ)最先报道的，该报称，富士康在中国新年之前、比往常更早地解雇了员工。
Apple declined to comment on reports of cuts in its supply chain.
苹果拒绝就有关削减供应链订单的报道置评。
The company yesterday published its annual App Store sales figure. It said iPhone and iPad owners had spent “over $20bn” on apps in 2015, up from $15bn App Store sales in the year before. “January 1, 2016 marked the biggest day in App Store history with customers spending over $144m,” Apple said.
昨日苹果发布了年度App Store销售数据。苹果称，2015年期间iPhone和iPad用户在应用上花费了“逾200亿美元”，高于2014年的150亿美元。“2016年1月1日是苹果App Store史上最重大的一天，用户在这一天的支出超过了1.44亿美元，”苹果表示。
“Apple’s annual run-rate for payments to developers is now around $14bn,” said Jan Dawson, analyst at Jackdaw Research. “That’s an enormous revenue number for something which is effectively a feature in Apple’s platform.”
“苹果支付给开发者的年度费用约为140亿美元，”Jackdaw Research的科技分析师简匠森(Jan Dawson)表示，“对于实际上是苹果平台上的一项功能来说，那是一笔巨大的收入。”
However, Wall Street looked past those figures, instead focusing on iPhone sales, which make up about two-thirds of Apple’s revenues. Some investors are anxious that iPhone sales may fall for the first time during 2016.
然而，华尔街把目光投向这些数字以外，关注占苹果收入约三分之二的iPhone销售额。一些投资者对于iPhone销售可能在2016年首次下降感到焦虑。
Analysts at Wells Fargo cut their price target for Apple by $5 yesterday, despite saying that they did not believe iPhone sales had peaked.
尽管富国银行(Wells Fargo)的分析师表示，他们并不认为iPhone的销售已经见顶，但昨日他们将苹果的股价预期下调了5美元。
However, Gene Munster at Piper Jaffray, one of Wall Street’s most bullish Apple analysts, cautioned that supply-chain leaks are not always reliable indicators of iPhone sales.
然而，华尔街最看好苹果的分析师、Piper Jaffray的基尼餠斯特(Gene Munster)告诫称，供应链问题并不总是反映iPhone销售的可靠指标。
