The confrontation between the technology industry and the FBI over encryption has deepened after Apple pledged to fight a court order that it help unblock an iPhone used by the perpetrators of December’s San Bernardino shooting.
苹果(Apple)声称将抗辩一项法院命令，该命令要求苹果帮助解锁去年12月圣贝纳迪诺(San Bernardino)枪击案行凶者使用的一部iPhone。苹果此举令科技行业与美国联邦调查局(FBI)之间围绕加密的对抗加深。
Tim Cook, Apple chief executive, said the federal court ruling was a “chilling” example of “over-reach by the US government” and claimed the company was being asked “to build a back door to the iPhone” which he said was “too dangerous to create”.
苹果首席执行官蒂姆錠克(Tim Cook)表示，这份联邦法院裁决是“美国政府伸手过长”的一个“可怕”例子。他声称，法院要求苹果“在iPhone上创建一个后门”，他表示，“这么做太危险了”。
The ruling has brought to a head a dispute over encryption and privacy between Silicon Valley and law enforcement that has been simmering for more than a year and sets up a legal showdown that could potentially end up in the Supreme Court. Mr Cook’s sharply-worded statement came hours after a Los Angeles judge said the company must provide “reasonable technical assistance” to the FBI in its efforts to get information off the phone.
这项裁决使硅谷和执法机构之间发酵了一年多的有关加密和隐私的争议白热化，成为可能最终闹到最高法院的一次法律摊牌。库克发出上述言辞激烈的声明几个小时之前，一名洛杉矶法官表示，苹果公司必须向FBI提供“合理的技术援助”，帮其获取iPhone中的信息。
Industry executives fear that US government pressure to weaken encryption could damage the credibility of their products which was already hit by the 2013 Edward Snowden revelations. They also worry that authoritarian governments would force them to hand over the same techniques to get around security systems. “This is the most important tech case in a decade,” Mr Snowden tweeted yesterday.
科技行业高管害怕，美国政府在弱化加密上的施压，可能破坏其产品的可信度，2013年爱德华斯诺登(Edward Snowden)的爆料已经让其产品的可信度受损。他们还担心，威权政府将迫使他们交出同样的技术，用于绕过安全系统。“这是十年来最重要的科技案，”斯诺登昨日在Twitter上发言称。
The FBI has been warning for months that new encryption procedures allow terrorists to “go dark” from surveillance approved by courts and make it harder to conduct criminal and national security investigations.
几个月以来，FBI一直在警告称，新的加密程序使恐怖分子可以对法院批准的监视“隐身”，使执行刑事和国家安全调查变得更困难。
The iPhone belonged to Syed Rizwan Farook, who, alongside his wife, Tashfeen Malik, carried out a mass shooting at the San Bernardino County Department of Public Health. Mr Farook and his wife were later killed by police in a shootout.
上述iPhone手机属于赛义德里兹万法鲁克(Syed Rizwan Farook)。他和妻子塔什费恩氠利克(Tashfeen Malik)在圣贝纳迪诺县公共卫生局(Department of Public Health)朝多人开枪。法鲁克和妻子随后在交火中被警察击毙。
The ruling orders Apple to create software that would allow the FBI to try and break the password.
法院裁决要求苹果公司开发让FBI能够尝试破解密码的软件。
Mr Cook’s decision to publish an open letter to customers, rather than debating the issue through the courts or in private meetings with the authorities, is unusually forthright for the company.
库克决定发布一封致用户的公开信，而不是在法庭上、或与当局在私下会议中辩论此问题，这对于苹果公司而言直率得非同寻常。
Donald Trump called on Apple to open up the phone to authorities. “I agree 100 per cent with the courts.” the Republican presidential candidate said.
唐纳德礠朗普(Donald Trump)呼吁苹果为当局解锁那部iPhone。“我百分百认同法院的看法，”这位共和党总统竞选人表示。
