The demand by the FBI that Apple help it break into the San Bernardino shooter’s iPhone breaches its constitutional rights under the First and Fifth Amendments by seeking to “conscript and commandeer” its employees, the Silicon Valley company argued in a legal response on Thursday.
周四，苹果(Apple)在一项法律回应中主张，美国联邦调查局(FBI)要求其协助解锁圣贝纳迪诺枪击案凶手iPhone之举，侵犯了美国宪法第一和第五修正案赋予苹果的宪法权力，因为这是对苹果员工的“征召和强占”。
Apple filed its “motion to vacate” last week’s order by a judge in California a day before Friday’s deadline, as Silicon Valley’s largest companies lined up behind the iPhone maker’s case.
苹果在本周五的最后期限前一天提交了“撤销动议”，要求撤销上周加州一名法官下达的法庭令。硅谷的大企业纷纷对这家iPhone制造商的主张表示支持。
The filing is Apple’s first response to the court after more than a week of increasingly bitter argument between chief executive Tim Cook and FBI director James Comey.
这一动议是苹果对法庭作出的首次回应。此前，苹果首席执行官蒂姆•库克(Tim Cook)与FBI局长詹姆斯•科米(James Comey)已打了一周多的口水仗，争论的火药味也越来越浓。
“This is not a case about one isolated iPhone,” Apple wrote, but about US law enforcement seeking a “dangerous power” beyond the authority granted by Congress. “Once the floodgates open, they cannot be closed, and the device security that Apple has worked so tirelessly to achieve will be unwound without so much as a congressional vote.”
苹果在法律回应中写道，“此案关乎的并非某一孤立的iPhone”，而是关乎美国执法部门试图获得一种逾越了美国国会授权范围的“危险的权力”。“闸门一旦打开，就无法关上。苹果付出不懈努力所实现的设备安全，将在国会还未就此案进行过任何表决的情况下就付之东流。”
If granted, other judges would seek a similar order in “a matter of days”, it said.
这项法律回应称，如果这项法庭令获得批准，其他法官将在“数日之内”寻求下达类似的命令。
Mr Comey acknowledged on Thursday that the ruling in the San Bernardino case could set a precedent that would be analysed by other courts, but said that it would apply to only a few limited cases that might involve the same phone model and the same operating system.
周四，科米承认圣贝纳迪诺枪击案的裁决可能会设置一个判例，而其他法院会研究这个判例。但他同时表示，此案将只适用于那些或涉及到相同手机型号和操作系统的少数有限案件。
He said that Apple had helped in the past to unlock phones when a warrant had been presented. He added that the phone would remain with Apple during any attempt to unlock it and that the software code would never leave the company, minimising the risk of it falling into the wrong hands.
他表示，过去当执法部门出示授权令时，苹果曾帮助解锁手机。他还表示，在对涉案手机进行任何解锁尝试期间，手机将归苹果保管，而且软件代码永远不会离开该公司，从而最大限度降低它落入坏人之手的风险。
Mr Comey and Mr Cook will testify before the House judiciary committee next week about encryption, privacy and security.
科米和库克下周将在美国众议院司法委员会(House judiciary committee)就加密、隐私和安全问题作证。
Several Silicon Valley companies are expected to file a joint motion next week in a broad show of support for Apple’s position. Microsoft, Facebook and Twitter said on Thursday that they would back Apple together in court, while Amazon said it was considering its legal options. Google is also understood to be backing Apple.
几家硅谷公司预计将于下周提交一份联合动议，以充分展示对苹果立场的支持。微软(Microsoft)、Facebook和Twitter周四表示，它们将一起在法庭上支持苹果。亚马逊(Amazon)表示正在考虑在法律上可以做点什么。谷歌(Google)据悉也将支持苹果。
