 Debris found in Mozambique is “highly likely” to come from MH370, Australian authorities said on Thursday, providing further evidence of the fate of the Malaysia Airlines plane that disappeared two years ago with 239 people on board.
 澳大利亚官方周四表示，在莫桑比克发现的残骸“极有可能”来自MH370，为这架两年前失踪、机上载有239人的马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)飞机的下落提供了进一步证据。
 An investigation team from Malaysia has found that two pieces of debris are consistent with panels from a Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777, according to Darren Chester, Australia’s transport minister.
 澳大利亚交通部长达伦•切斯特(Darren Chester)透露，来自马来西亚的一个调查小组发现，两块残骸与马航一架波音777(Boeing 777)客机的壁板一致。
 “The analysis has concluded the debris is almost certainly from MH370,” Mr Chester said.
 “分析得出结论，这些残骸几乎肯定来自MH370，”切斯特表示。
 Liow Tiong Lai, Malaysian transport minister, said in a statement that paint and stencilling on the parts matched those used by Malaysia Airlines, while the dimensions, materials and construction of the parts match those of a Boeing 777.
 马来西亚交通部长廖中莱(Liow Tiong Lai)在一份声明中表示，残骸上的油漆和标志与马航所用的油漆和标志相符，而其尺寸、材料和构造与波音777客机相符。
 One of the pieces of debris was discovered by an American lawyer and amateur investigator Blaine Gibson in February while the other was found by a South African teenager Liam Lotter, who was on holiday in Mozambique in December.
 其中一块残骸是美国律师及业余调查者布莱恩•吉布森(Blaine Gibson)在2月份发现的，而另一块残骸是由南非少年利亚姆•洛特(Liam Lotter)去年12月在莫桑比克度假时找到的。
 Only four other 777s have been written off due to accidents since the aircraft type entered service in 1994. None of those were lost over the sea and all are accounted for.
 自波音777飞机在1994年投入商用以来，迄今只有另外四架此型飞机因意外事故坠毁。这些事故没有一起发生在海上，而且均已找到残骸。
 The Australian minister said the discovery on the east coast of Africa was consistent with drift modelling, which maps how ocean currents and wind would have dispersed floating debris from the search area in the southern Indian Ocean.
 澳大利亚交通部长称，在非洲东海岸发现残骸，与漂移模型的预测是相符的，该模型绘制出洋流和风将使南印度洋搜索区域的漂浮物如何漂移。
 A piece of the aircraft’s wing, called a flaperon, was found on the Indian Ocean island of Reunion last July. It was discovered by an islander, Johnny Bègue, who was in charge of a beach cleaning team.
 去年7月在印度洋上的留尼汪岛(Reunion)发现了一块襟副翼残骸，那是飞机机翼的一个部件，它是被负责一个海滩清洁团队的本地人约翰尼•贝格(Johnny Bègue)发现的。
 A further piece of debris, suspected to be an engine cowling, has been found in South Africa, and Malaysian authorities are working to arrange examination of the object.
 还有一块疑似发动机罩的残骸已在南非被发现，马来西亚有关部门正安排对其进行检查。
 Air traffic controllers lost contact with MH370 less than an hour after take-off from Kuala Lumpur on March 8 2014. The passenger jet, bound for Beijing, changed course to the west. Analysis of satellite signals showed it then turned south and headed out over the Indian Ocean.
 2014年3月8日，马航MH370航班从吉隆坡起飞不到一小时后就与空中交通管制失联。这架本应飞往北京的喷气客机改变航向，向西飞行。对卫星信号的分析表明，它随后掉头向南，飞向浩瀚的印度洋。
