 Organised crime prosecutors have raided the Panama City headquarters of Mossack Fonseca, the law firm at the centre of the “Panama Papers” leak.
 打击有组织犯罪的检方人员突击搜查了莫萨克•丰塞卡律所(Mossack Fonseca)巴拿马城总部。这家律所是“巴拿马文件”(Panama Papers)泄露事件的焦点所在。
 Carlos Soussa-Lennox, a spokesman for the firm, told the Financial Times that the inspection — which local media reports suggested had started at 3pm local time — was still under way eight hours later.
 律所发言人卡洛斯•索萨-伦诺克斯(Carlos Soussa-Lennox)告诉英国《金融时报》，搜查工作已持续了8个小时，目前仍在进行当中。
 “We continue to co-operate with the authorities in the investigations under way in our headquarters,” Mossack Fonseca tweeted.
 莫萨克•丰塞卡律所在Twitter网站上发帖称：“我们继续配合当局对我们总部展开调查。”
 In a statement, it added: “We have a long history of working proactively with relevant authorities in various jurisdictions when questions are raised and additional information is required, and in many cases we’re the ones who actually initiate that contact when suspicious activities are detected.
 该律所在一份声明中表示：“长期以来，每当各司法管辖区的有关当局对我们产生疑问、要求提供更多信息时，我们都主动予以配合。而且，在许多情况下，一旦发现有可疑活动，我们实际上还会主动与当局联系。
 “In this case, we’re the ones against whom a crime has been committed. Our systems having been unlawfully breached by parties external to the firm.”
 “在本案中，我们是犯罪行为的受害者。我们的系统被律所外部人员非法攻破。”
 Mr Soussa-Lennox gave no details of whether documents or computers had been removed from the offices during the search, which was led by a new prosecutor’s office into organised crime. Its creation was announced earlier on Tuesday, along with a specialist unit investigating money laundering and terrorist financing.
 索萨-伦诺克斯未详细说明搜查过程中是否有文件或电脑被从办公室带走。这次搜查由一个打击有组织犯罪的新的检方部门牵头。该部门是周二早些时候宣布成立的，同时成立的还有一个负责调查洗钱和恐怖分子融资的专家部门。
 The attorney-general’s office said the new units kept Panama “in the vanguard of the fight against organised crime ... and strengthen [Panama’s] operational capacity in the light of current events”.
 巴拿马总检察长办公室表示，这些新部门使得巴拿马“处于打击有组织犯罪的先锋位置……并在当前多起事件后加强了（巴拿马的）行动能力。”
 Police secured the Mossack Fonseca offices with vehicles parked outside. Officials said the search was for documents that could reveal whether the law firm had been used in illicit activities, and local media reported that a simultaneous inspection had been made at a facility providing back-up activities.
 警方把车辆停在莫萨克•丰塞卡律所办公楼外，以此控制了该律所。官员们表示，此次搜查是为了寻找可能揭示该律所是否曾被用于非法活动的文件。
