Prime Minister Narendra Modi has pledged to reinvigorate his flagship “Make in India” drive to develop a Chinese-style global manufacturing and export powerhouse, as part of the attempt to consolidate his country's position as the world’s fastest growing leading economy.
印度总理伦德拉莫迪(Narendra Modi)誓言重振其“印度制造”旗舰政策，将该国发展为一个中国式的全球制造和出口大国，这是巩固印度作为全球增长最快的大型经济体地位的努力的一部分。
Speaking ahead of a week-long manufacturing showcase modelled on Germany’s annual Hannover Messe in the financial capital Mumbai, Mr Modi pledged to redouble reform efforts to attract global manufacturers to India, promising to improve the taxation treatment of foreign companies and ease the country's famously complex business climate.
印度仿照德国的汉诺威工业博览会(Hannover Messe)，在其金融中心孟买推出了为期一周的制造业博览会。莫迪在博览会开幕前夕发表的讲话中誓言加倍努力改革，吸引全球制造商到印度投资设厂，承诺改善外国公司的税收待遇，改善该国复杂得出名的商业环境。
“We want to make India a global manufacturing hub,” Mr Modi said. “There is an all round emphasis on ‘Ease of doing business’...圠攀 are also simplifying processes like licences, security and environmental clearances.”
Mr Modi’s “Make in India” week is expected to see a range of commitments from global industrial groups. On Saturday, London-listed Vedanta pledged $10bn to set up India's first LCD manufacturing plant in the western state of Maharashtra, while other, smaller, promises have begun to trickle in.
在莫迪的“印度制造”周上，预计可以看到全球工业集团的一系列承诺。上周六，在伦敦上市的韦丹塔(Vedanta)承诺斥资100亿美元在马哈拉施特拉邦建立印度首家LCD制造工厂，同时还有其他企业陆续做出一些规模较小的承诺。
Mr Modi also reassured foreign investors on tax, a worry for companies such as Vodafone and Cairn, who have been hit by officials reopening retrospective taxation disputes.
莫迪还在税收问题上安抚了外国投资者。印度官员们重启的回溯性税收纠纷让受到冲击的沃达丰(Vodafone)和凯恩(Cairn)等公司感到不安。
“We will not resort to retrospective taxation; we are making our tax regime transparent, stable and predictable,” Mr Modi said.
Many economists see increasing the size of India’s manufacturing sector as Mr Modi’s biggest challenge as he strives to create much needed employment and generate jobs for a backlog of unemployed as well as an estimated 12m school leavers entering the workforce each year.
许多经济学家认为，在莫迪努力创造亟需的就业机会之际，扩大印度制造业部门的规模是他面临的最大挑战。印度累积了大量的失业人口，而且估计每年还有1200万名毕业生进入社会寻找工作。
A job advertisement for office tea boys and night guards attracted 2.32m applicants last year, underlining the stresses that India is facing.
去年一则招聘办公室茶水男孩和夜间保安的广告吸引了232万应聘者，突显出印度面临的严峻局面。
India’s manufacturing sector contributes about 17 per cent to GDP, according to World Bank data. That is well below China’s 35 per cent, and the government’s short-term targets. “We want the share of manufacturing in our GDP to go up to 25 per cent in the near future,” Mr Modi said during his speech on Saturday.
世界银行(World Bank)的数据显示，印度的制造业部门贡献了大约17%的GDP。这远低于中国35%的比例以及印度政府的短期目标。莫迪在上周六的演讲中表示：“我们希望制造业在GDP中的份额在不久的将来上升至25%。”
