Faraday Future, an electric car company backed by a Chinese entrepreneur, said on Thursday it would invest $1 billion to build a 900-acre factory in a suburb of Las Vegas.
得到了一位中国企业家支持的电动车公司法拉第未来(Faraday Future)周四表示，将投资10亿美元，在拉斯维加斯郊区建一座占地900英亩的工厂。
The company, which intends to compete with Tesla Motors but has not yet unveiled a product, said the plant in North Las Vegas would bring 4,500 jobs to the state.
该公司打算与特斯拉汽车(Tesla Motors)竞争，但尚未推出任何产品，位于北拉斯维加斯的工厂将给所在州带来4500个就业岗位。
“We plan to revolutionize the automobile industry by creating an integrated, intelligent mobility system that protects the earth and improves the living environment of mankind,” Jia Yueting, the billionaire founder and chief executive of Leshi TV, an Internet video service, wrote in a letter to Nevada legislators.
“我们计划通过创造一个完整、智能的汽车体系，一个能保护地球，改善人类生活环境的体系，使汽车行业发生革命性的改变，”中国互联网视频服务供应商乐视的创始人兼首席执行官、亿万富翁贾跃亭在给内华达州议员的信中写道。
Faraday has offered little detail on its plans, but the company intends to unveil a concept car on Jan. 4 at the Consumer Electronics Show, a technology trade show in Las Vegas, and it hopes to bring a car to market as early as 2017.
法拉第没有给出多少细节，但公司计划1月4日在拉斯维加斯的的科技贸易展会消费者电子产品展(Consumer Electronics Show)上推出一款概念车，并希望最早在2017年上市一款车。
The company had been also exploring sites in California, Georgia and Louisiana. Gov. Brian Sandoval of Nevada said on Thursday that Nevada had offered Faraday up to $215 million in incentives. State officials estimated the company would create 13,000 direct and indirect jobs and generate $760 million in tax revenue over 20 years, he said.
公司还在考察加利福尼亚州、佐治亚洲和路易斯安那州的场地。内华达州州长布赖恩·桑多瓦尔(Brian Sandoval)周四表示，该州给法拉第提供了价值高达2.15亿美元的优惠。他说州官员估计，法拉第直接和间接创造的就业岗位将达1.3万个，并在20年里带来7.6亿美元的税收。
Last year, Nevada was also able to woo Tesla to the state to build a $5 billion battery production plant near Reno that it calls the Gigafactory. The state offered tax breaks worth about $1.25 billion over 20 years.
去年，内华达州也争取到了特斯拉去该州，在里诺附近投资50亿美元，修建被其称作超级电池工厂(Gigafactory)的电池生产厂。该州为其提供了价值约12.5亿美元的税收优惠，时间跨度20年。
Faraday, based in California, has more than 400 employees, including a leadership team with several former employees of Tesla and other automotive companies. In addition to making electric cars, the company intends to develop “other aspects of the automotive and technology industries, including unique ownership models, in-vehicle content and autonomous driving.”
总部位于加利福尼亚州的法拉第公司包括领导团队在内有400多名员工。其多名领导成员曾在特斯拉和其他车企供职。除制造电动车外，公司还打算开发“汽车和科技行业的其他领域，包括独特的所有权模式、车载内容和自动驾驶”。
Faraday could provide a shot in the arm to the electric car industry, which has fallen well short of President Obama’s 2008 goal of having one million cars on the road by 2015. There are about 330,000, and car dealers have shown little enthusiasm for electric cars.
法拉第有望给电动车行业带来一些动力。奥巴马总统2008年提出的目标是，到2015年路上要有100万辆电动车。但该行业离这个目标相去甚远。目前已有的电动车数量约为33万辆，汽车经销商对电动车没有表现出多大的热情。
Tesla said in November that it was on track to produce more than 50,000 cars this year, and it began shipping its second model, the Model X, in September.
特斯拉曾在11月表示，自己今年的产量有望超过5万辆，并称其第二款车型Model X已于9月开始出货。
In a profile in The Verge, Nick Sampson, a senior vice president for Faraday, said the company would seek to differentiate itself from Tesla, but gave few specifics.
在The Verge的一篇专题文章中，法拉第高级副总裁尼克·桑普森(Nick Sampson)表示公司将争取有别于特斯拉，但未做详细说明。
“Many people look at Tesla and think they’ve done it differently than the traditional auto industry — and they have,” he said. “But there’s other ways and other things we can capitalize on.”
“看到特斯拉，很多人认为他们的做事方式不同于传统的汽车行业，确实如此，”他说。“但我们可以利用其他方式和其他东西。”
