Rodrigo Duterte looked set to become the next president of the Philippines last night as partial results indicated that the strongman mayor of the city of Davao had won about 39 per cent of the vote in yesterday’s election.
罗德里戈•杜特蒂(Rodrigo Duterte，见上图)昨晚看来将成为菲律宾下一任总统，部分点票结果表明，这位强势的达沃市(Davao City)市长在昨日大选中赢得大约39%的选票。
Estimates from elections watchdog Comelec, based on an unofficial count of almost 80 per cent of the ballots, suggested Mr Duterte was set for a landslide victory, with 13.7m votes by midnight — more than 5m ahead of his closest rival.
根据对近80%选票的非官方统计，选举监督机构——选举委员会(COMELEC)的估计表明，杜特蒂将取得压倒性胜利；截至午夜，他已赢得1370万张选票，比最接近的对手多出500多万张。
Former senator Grace Poe, a one-time frontrunner who slipped into third place, conceded defeat to Mr Duterte late last night. “I’m giving way, I respect the results,” she told a news conference.
一度领先但后来掉至第三位的候选人、前参议员格蕾西•波(Grace Poe)昨日深夜向杜特蒂认输。“我让路，我尊重选举结果，”她在记者会上表示。
In a democracy where personality has always trumped policy pledges, the controversial Mr Duterte — who is known as “Dirty Harry” and regularly compared to pugnacious US presidential hopeful Donald Trump — captured the public imagination after promising to improve security by killing 100,000 suspected criminals.
在这个候选人的个性魅力永远被置于政策承诺之上的民主国家，有争议的杜特蒂抓住了公众想象力，他承诺杀死10万犯罪嫌疑人以改善治安。杜特蒂的外号是“肮脏的哈里”，人们经常把他与好斗的美国总统候选人角逐者唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)相提并论。
Political analysts say the election shows a growing portion of the public choosing strong leaders over democratic ideals, with early polls also indicating Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, son of the former dictator whose name he shares, the likely winner in the vice-presidential race.
政治分析人士表示，这场大选显示，越来越多的公众选择强势领导人而非民主理想；早期点票结果还显示，前独裁者马科斯的儿子费迪南德•邦邦•马科斯(Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos)很可能赢得副总统选举。
Following six years of economic expansion and political stability in the Philippines, the international business community has described the would-be leader, who has admitted knowing little about economic policy, as a wild card who could threaten growth and investment in one of Asia’s best-performing economies.
杜特蒂承认自己不懂经济政策。在菲律宾经历持续六年的经济发展和政治稳定之后，国际商界把这位即将上台的新领导人形容为未知数，可能给亚洲表现最佳经济体之一的增长和投资带来威胁。
“He has no foreign policy and no formal statements concerning business,” says Ebb Hinchliffe, executive director for the American Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines. “He is such an unknown and he makes people nervous.”
“他没有外交政策，也没有关于商业的正式声明，”菲律宾美国商会(American Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines)执行总监艾布•欣奇利夫(Ebb Hinchliffe)表示。“他就是这样的一个未知数，让人紧张。”
In the past six years under President Benigno Aquino, the Philippines has shed its label as the “sick man” of Asia. An anti-corruption drive has boosted the country’s reputation and growth has ticked up to an average 6.3 per cent annually over the past five years.
过去六年里，在贝尼尼奥•阿基诺三世(Benigno Aquino)总统领导下，菲律宾甩掉了亚洲“病夫”标签。反腐败运动提振了国家的声誉，过去五年期间年均经济增长达到6.3%。
Yet yesterday’s election signals that Filipinos are demanding change, with much of the public complaining that growth has not trickled down to the poor.
然而，昨日选举传递出的信号是，菲律宾人要求变化，很多公众抱怨经济增长的成果未能让穷人受惠。
