Opposition leader Tsai Ing-wen won a historic landslide victory in Saturday’s elections but Taiwan’s president-elect must now turn her attention to the daunting tasks of rejuvenating the island’s struggling economy and managing relations with a Chinese government that is hostile to her party.
台湾反对党领袖蔡英文(Tsai Ing-wen)在上周六的大选中赢得了历史性的压倒性胜利，但这名总统当选人现在必须把注意力转向两项艰巨的任务上：振兴岛内低迷经济，以及处理与中国政府的关系，后者对她所领导的政党毫无好感。
Ms Tsai crushed rival Eric Chu from the ruling Kuomintang, or Nationalist party, in the presidential race, winning 56 per cent of the vote to his 31 per cent, as the Taiwanese people voiced their dissatisfaction with the KMT’s lacklustre government and its pro-China policies.
蔡英文大胜执政党中国国民党(Nationalist Party)的总统候选人朱立伦(Eric Chu)，赢得了56%的选票，朱立伦赢得的选票为31%。台湾民众表达出他们对国民党政府乏善可陈的政绩和亲中政策的不满。
When inaugurated in May, she will become the first female president in this island of 23m people and one of the first female leaders elected in Asia who is not from a family dynasty.
蔡英文今年5月就任时，将成为拥有2300万人口的台湾的首位女总统，同时也是在亚洲未借助家族人脉而当选为领导人的首批女性之一。
Her Democratic Progressive party also smashed the KMT in the simultaneous legislative election, taking 60 per cent of the 113 seats in Taiwan’s parliament, up from 35 per cent in 2012, and giving it a majority for the first time in its history.
在同时进行的立法院选举中，她所在的民主进步党(DPP)也大胜国民党，赢得了台湾立法院113个席位中的60%，而2012年其席位仅占35%，这是民进党史上首次取得多数地位。
Looking emotional and raspy-voiced, the bookish former law professor told supporters on Saturday night that she would work to “bring forth a country with more freedom, more democracy, more prosperity and more justice”.
在上周六晚上，这位带有书卷气的前法学教授看起来颇为激动，声音也略显嘶哑，她告诉支持者：“一个更自由、更民主、更繁荣、更公义的国家就在我们的眼前。”
“We hold an absolute majority and we must fulfil our promises to the voters,” she said. “Our reform will not be half-measured.”
“民主进步党是国会的多数党，我们就要兑现对选民的承诺，”她说，“改革绝对不能剩一半。”
But progress will be difficult given the deteriorating economy and the renewed question marks over Taiwan’s relations with Beijing, which claims that the island is still part of China and has threatened to invade if it declares formal independence.
但考虑到正在恶化的台湾经济，以及围绕两岸关系的新问号，取得进展将是困难的。北京方面宣称台湾仍是中国的一部分，并威胁如果台湾正式宣布独立将武力攻打台湾。
Tien Hung-mao, a former Taiwanese foreign minister and chairman of the Institute for National Policy Research, said there was a “sense of urgency” for Ms Tsai to seek a mutual understanding with Beijing about the cross-straits relationship before she is inaugurated on May 20.
台湾前外交部长、台湾国策研究院(Institute for National Policy Research)院长田弘茂表示，现在有一种“紧迫感”，迫使蔡英文在5月20日就任前寻求与北京方面就两岸关系达成互相谅解。
He said the other priority was “Taiwan’s ailing economy”, which shrank by 1 per cent in the third quarter as it felt the effects of the slowdown in China and weak global trade.
他表示，另一个当务之急是“台湾状况不佳的经济”。因为中国经济放缓和全球贸易疲弱的影响，台湾经济在2015年第三季度收缩了1%。
The DPP has long promoted a separate Taiwanese identity and it opposed outgoing President Ma Ying-jeou’s policy of closer economic ties with China.
长期以来，民进党一直宣扬独立的台湾认同。民进党反对现任台湾总统马英九和大陆建立更紧密经济关系的政策。
Its overwhelming victory in the elections sends an uncomfortable signal to Beijing about the direction in which Taiwan is moving.
民进党在选举中取得压倒性胜利，这给北京方面传达了一个有关台湾前进方向的不妙信号。
“By electing Ms Tsai as president, Taiwan is sending a clear message to China that it’s time for the Taiwanese people to take back control and decide the course of their own nation,” said Hawang Shiow-duan, a political scientist at Taiwan’s Soochow University.
“通过选举蔡英文为总统，台湾向中国发出了明确的信息——是时候由台湾人民收回控制权并决定他们自己国家的前进方向了，”台湾东吴大学(Soochow University)政治学家黄秀端(Hawang Shiow-duan)表示。
Beijing’s initial response was restrained, with the foreign ministry saying “the result of the election in Taiwan will not change the basic fact” that Taiwan belongs to China and that it “never tolerates any separatist activities”.
北京方面的初步反应比较克制，中国外交部表示“台湾地区选举结果不改变”台湾属于中国这一基本事实，中国政府“绝不容忍任何形式的‘台独’分裂活动”。
Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, said the change of government was a mere “fleeting cloud” and that the “progress of mainland China is the key factor that determines Taiwan’s future”.
国家新闻通讯社新华社表示，台湾政局变化不过是“过眼云烟”，“决定台湾前途、两岸关系走向的关键因素是大陆的发展进步”。
Analysts warned that Beijing might look to cut some economic and political ties with Taiwan as punishment for the election of a party whose stance it dislikes.
分析人士警告说，北京方面不喜欢民进党的立场，可能会考虑切断与台湾的部分经济和政治联系，作为对该党获选的惩罚。
“Boycotts from Beijing are possible,” said Lin Cheng-yi, an expert on international relations at Academia Sinica, a Taiwanese research institute. “But the issue of Taiwan won’t be a priority for the People’s Republic of China, if it is not provoked.”
台湾研究机构中央研究院( Academia Sinica)国际关系专家林正义表示：“北京方面可能会予以杯葛。但只要不受到挑衅，中华人民共和国就不会把台湾问题列为优先事项。”
While the DPP wants to reduce Taiwan’s economic reliance on China in the medium term, any increase in cross-strait tensions could make the business climate even gloomier, given that 40 per cent of the island’s exports go to China.
虽然民进党希望在中期内减少台湾对中国的经济依赖，但由于台湾40%的出口都输往大陆，两岸紧张局势只要有所升级，台湾的商业环境将更加黯淡。
A further challenge is the long transition period between the swearing-in of the new legislature on February 1 and Ms Tsai being inaugurated as president in May.
新议会将于2月1日宣誓就职，而蔡英文就任总统是在5月，这之间漫长的过渡期将形成进一步挑战。
Bruce Jacobs, an expert on Taiwanese politics at Australia’s Monash University, said that Ms Tsai must use this interregnum to prepare “so that she can hit the ground running”.
澳大利亚莫纳什大学(Monash University)台湾政治问题专家布鲁斯雅各布(Bruce Jacobs)表示，蔡英文必须利用这段过渡期做好准备，“这样才能有个好的开始。”
Ms Hawang of Soochow University believes that Ms Tsai’s past experience as a legislator and senior government official will help. “She knows how to deal with the parliament and I think she will do a better job than past two presidents,” she said.
东吴大学的黄秀端相信蔡英文过去作为立法委员和政府高官的经验将派上用场。她说：“她知道如何与立法院打交道，我认为她会比前两任总统干得更好。”
