Adding to the madness of the 2016 US presidential election is American lawyer Andrew Basiago. He claims to have traveled through time nearly all his life, and is pretty sure that he’s going to become “either president or vice president” between 2016 and 2028. Polling data is obviously of little use to this guy.
2016年美国总统大选又添一丝波澜，美国律师安德鲁·帕西哥宣布将参加大选。他声称自己几乎一生都在进行时空旅行，并且非常确定自己将在2016年到2028年期间成为美国总统或副总统。对于这个家伙，民意测评显然不管用了。
Basiago, a Washington-based attorney, first started talking about his experience with time travel in 2004, with Project Pegasus – a top secret organisation studying the effects of time travel and teleportation on children. So between 1968 and 1972, when Basiago was a young boy of seven, he claims to have participated in several experiments that transported him through time, space, and even parallel universes. His mission, supposedly, was to provide the US President at the time with important information about past and future events.
华盛顿律师帕西哥在2004年首次谈及其时空旅行经历和飞马计划。飞马计划是一个顶尖的秘密组织，专门研究时空旅行及儿童瞬间移动。帕西哥声称，1968到1972年期间，即自七岁起便开始参与多项试验，通过时间、空间、甚至是平行空间来进行远程传输。据称，他的任务便是向当时的美国总统提供过去及未来要事的重要信息。
Now, Basiago is using the ‘knowledge’ gained over years of time travel to further his political ambitions – he’s running for president this year as an independent candidate, and is fairly confident he’s going to win. “I have prior knowledge that not only will I run for president, but that during one of the elections – which would have to be between 2016 and 2028, because I’m not running past that – I’m either elected president or vice president,” he explained, confidently.
目前，帕西哥利用其多年时空旅行所知来助推其实现政治理想，他以独立候选人身份参与今年的美国总统大选，并且深信自己将取得成功。他极为自信地解释道：“时空旅行所知显示我不仅将竞选总统，而且将在2016年到2028年期间当选为一届美国总统或副总统，因为在那之后我就不会参与竞选了。”
Basiago’s greatest qualification to hold office, of course, is his first-hand information of past and future events. Basiago claims to have gone back in time to 1863 and witnessed Abraham Lincoln’s speech at Gettysburg. He’s also been to the future – the year 2054 – so he as an idea of the pitfalls that a president should be avoiding. Having traveled widely in time, Basiago has held conversations with President Bush, President Clinton, and President Obama decades before they were elected to office, notifying them in advance of their presidencies. More importantly, he has been to Mars in 1981, which makes for unrivaled experience in foreign relations.
帕西哥有资格当选的最大杀手锏便是，掌握过去及未来要事的第一手资料。他声称，自己穿越到过去，亲眼见证了亚伯拉罕·林肯总统1863年在葛底斯堡的演讲；他也曾穿越到未来，去到了2054年，因此他清楚总统应该避免的错误。帕西哥时空旅行经验丰富，在布什总统、克林顿总统、奥巴马总统当选之前便与之交谈，提前告知他们详情。更为重要的是，他曾于1981年抵达火星，因而在外交领域的经验无可比拟。
But he’s had enough of all the secrecy now. In the all-new version of Project Pegasus that he’s leading himself, Basiago is campaigning for the US government to publicly disclose all the advances made in teleportation technology. He’s calling for truth, reform, and innovation, which would benefit humanity as a whole and make transportation across the Earth and beyond instantaneous as well as environment friendly.
目前，他已经掌握了足够多的秘密。飞马计划的最新说法是，帕西哥正孤军奋战，发动美国政府公开其在远程传输技术方面取得的所有成就。他提倡真相、改革及革新，这些都将造福于整个人类社会，而且远程传输在进行瞬息跨地传物时并不会对环境造成伤害。
Basiago has lashed out at President Obama in particular, accusing him of lying and betrayal. He claims that as a teenager, Obama served as a fellow ‘chrononaut’ on the Mars mission in the ’80s, but has disclosed nothing about it to the American public. Basiago calls this “literally lying, to deny the involvement of a set of Americans who put their lives at risk at a very young age, doing what their country asked of them.” This, he believes, is telling of the “calculating, shallow opportunism” of the nation’s current leadership.
帕西哥痛斥美国总统奥巴马，指责其否认参与该计划。他声称，奥巴马十几岁时就曾乘时光机抵达火星执行任务，但其却未向美国公众披露此次计划。帕西哥称，“他否认参与数项实验，这完全就是在撒谎。这些实验参与者幼年时期便要冒生命危险，按美国政府要求来执行任务。”他表示，这些足以证明美国当前领导人步步心机，眼光浅薄。
Not wanting to keep things under wraps anymore, Basiago has offered a rudimentary explanation of teleportation technology himself. He claims that the devices they use have “quantum access capability” and can be divided into two categories – one that enables physical teleportation to the past or future, and another that creates a hologram to serve as a looking-glass into a specific time or place without actually being there. Physical teleportation, he claims, was developed using the papers left behind by Nikola Tesla, after his death in 1943. ‘Chronovision’, on the other hand, was invented by two Vatican musicologists and later passed on to the US government by Rome.
帕西哥不愿再死守秘密，解释了远程传物的基本原理。他声称，时光机具备“量子接入能力”，可分为两部分，一部分能够进行过去或未来的物理远程传输，另一部分则是通过一个类似镜子的全息图景来进入到本就存在的特定时空。他表示，根据尼古拉·特斯拉1943年去世后遗留下来的资料，物理远程传输得以实现。另外，“时光机”由两个梵蒂冈音乐学家发明，后经罗马传到美国政府手中。
These technologies have apparently been around for a long time, but according to Basiago, US scientists advised the government to hide them from the public because they could potentially erase entire industries and jobs that are focused around existing transportation methods. But Basiago disagrees. “Knowing about these things will allow the public to understand and participate in the advancement of new technologies,” he said.
显然，这些技术由来已久，但据帕西哥所述，真相一旦公布，按现有的传输方法运作的所有产业和职位可能都将消亡，因此美国科学家建议政府对公众隐瞒此事。然而，帕西哥不同意此说法，他称，“公众了解这些便能够理解新技术革新并且参与其中”。
So there you have it, if neither Hillary nor Trump seem like US President material to you, or if you simply always wanted to travel through time and space, Andrew Basiago is your man.
你要知道，如果希拉里和特朗普都不是你的菜，又或者你只是想体验时空旅行，那么安德鲁·帕西哥就是你的最佳总统人选。
