You've probably met a doctor, lawyer, office worker, or teacher. Unfortunately, there's a lack of information available in schools, various institutions, career counseling offices, and in homes where children grow up, about ways to make money if you're either not interested in, or for whatever reason, aren't cut out for living the life of a doctor, lawyer, or office worker. According to Forbes.com there are 52 million freelance workers, which make up 33% of the domestic workforce. In other words: the number of freelance, independent contractors has increased. Some join the freelance workforce out of love and passion, some join it to adapt to a not so great economy, and for some it's a bit of both.
Wrinkle Chasers make $19,00 – $49,000 a year. They iron out the wrinkles on shoes using only a hand iron, and a hot air dryer. Wrinkle chasers help make shoes look shiny, new, and wrinkle-free.
Human mannequins are paid about $100 per hour. The pay is so high because it involves staying still for periods of time that very few people can successfully achieve. This job isn't for people with even a hint of ADD, or those who get bored easily because you're paid to stay super still in one place for several hours.
Hotels pay professional sleepers to test out their beds, and write about their experiences. The only requirements: being fluent in the official language(s) of the hotel and being able to doze off.
Sex toy testers test out sex toys, for approximately $39,000 a year. Professional sex toy testers work from home, and are the first to test out sex toys, lingerie, and products designed to fulfill specific fetish niches. Companies that make sex toys and lingerie hire sex toy testers so that they can figure out how effective their products are before they're sent to the shelves of sex shops, and the homes of couples worldwide.
Professional bed warmers are paid to wear special, all in one-sleeper suits, and warm up the beds of Holiday Inn guests, before they get under the covers. An Edinburg Sleep Centre study concluded that cold beds inhibit sleep, and warm beds, approximately 20 to 24 degrees Celsius, help people have a good night's sleep. In January 2010, five-minute free bed warming sessions were test driven at London and Manchester, U.K Holiday Inn Locations.
审校：庄粉玲 编辑：Freya然 来源：前十网
