When you have an ample source of renewable energy, why waste non-renewable alternatives? It seems, the government of USA has given this a careful thought and has proclaimed a plan to maximize the production of solar panels in the first half of 2016 to 35 gigawatts. When compared to the amount of solar panels developed worldwide, this number is exceptionally very large. Thanks to the declining cost of installing and developing solar panels, the market for these will grow globally by 2017.
当你有充足的可再生能源来源的时候，为什么还要浪费不可再生的能源呢？看来，美国政府已经对此作出了认真的思考，宣布计划在2016年上半年最大限度地提高太阳能电池板的产量到35吉瓦。相比于世界上已开发的太阳能电池板的数量，这个数字是非常大的。由于安装和开发太阳能电池板的成本下降，到2017年其市场将在全球范围内增长。
Even if the solar panel market is new, one cannot deny its potential as an alternative to fossil fuels. On many occasions, we have seen these panels being used for solar pool heating or for lighting up an apartment. But you will be quite surprised to see how this energy is used in some unexpected areas. Here are 10 of the most unexpected uses of solar power that will leave you awestruck.
即使太阳能电池板市场是新兴市场，人们也不能否认它作为化石燃料的替代品的潜力。在很多情况下，我们看到这些电池板被用于太阳能池加热或照明公寓。但你会很惊讶地看到这种能量是如何在一些地方使用使用的。这里有10种太阳能最意想不到的用途，它们会震撼到你。
1. Movie Theatre
电影院
Can you even imagine watching a movie in a theatre where everything technical is running with the support of solar power? Well, you may not find a big screen here, but this petite theatre receives its power from four large lithium ion batteries, charged up by 120W solar panels. So, there will be no chances of power failure. Sol Cinema, as this converted two berth 1960’s caravan is also known as, uses an LED video projector and accommodates from eight to 12 adults. This UK-based theater will spice up your adventure movie while you sit comfortably in the vintage car, munching on your popcorn.
你能想象在一个所有技术都是通过太阳能运行的剧院里看电影吗？嗯，你可能在这里找不到一个大屏幕，但这个小剧院是从由120W的太阳能电池板充电的四块大的锂离子电池处接收能量的。因此，不会出现电源故障。经过改造的的两卧铺1960年大篷车，也被称为Sol电影院，它使用一台LED视频投影机，并可容纳8到12个成年人。这个以英国为基地的电影院会在你舒适地坐在其中吃爆米花的时候，为您播放冒险电影。
2. Aircraft
飞机
Back in 2010, engineers in Switzerland spent seven years in developing a plane that is powered by solar panels. Solar Impulse flew at an altitude of 4000 feet for more than 24 hours continuously. When solar panel on vehicle is still rare, this plane has 12,000 solar cells that help it fly even after sunset.
早在2010年，瑞士的工程师花了七年时间开发了一架由太阳能电池板供电的飞机。太阳能推动飞机在4000英尺的高度下飞行24小时以上。当太阳能电池板在车辆上仍罕见的时候，这架飞机就已经有12000个太阳能电池片，帮助它即使在日落后也能飞行。
Again in 2013, equipped with more than 17,000 solar cells, Solar Impulse 2 took off from Abu Dhabi. This aircraft aims to fly around the world using solar cells to run four electric motors charged by lithium batteries.
在2013年，配备着17000块以上的太阳能电池片，太阳能脉冲2号从阿布扎比起飞。这架飞机的目的是使用太阳能电池驱动4个锂电池充电的电动马达来环游世界。
3. Music
音乐
The Green Music Group has taken a big leap with its environment protection decision. This coalition of musicians and music lovers prefers people to download albums instead of buying hard copies and their tour buses run on biodiesel. Inspired by the Green Music Group’s initiative, popular Caribbean musician Turtuga Blanku has successfully developed a solar-powered studio. He has placed four pairs of solar panels on the roof to store the power in a battery, which helps him operate the studio by night.
绿能音乐集团在其环境保护决定上已迈出了一大步。这个联盟的音乐家和音乐爱好者喜欢人们下载专辑而不是购买硬拷贝，他们的旅游巴士使用生物柴油发动。受绿能音乐集团的倡议激发，著名的加勒比音乐家Turtuga Blanku已成功开发出了一间太阳能工作室。他把四对太阳能电池板放在屋顶上，将能量储存在一块电池里，这有助于他夜间开展工作。
4. Vending Machines
自动贩卖机
What would it be like getting your favorite chocolate bar from a vending machine operated by solar power? Well, you need to ask the users of this machine in Fuji. The moss-covered vending machine has solar panels that store energy to keep the beverages cool.
从一台由太阳能涂东的自动售货机上得到你最喜欢的巧克力条会是什么景象？哦，你需要问一下富士山上这台机器的用户。这台苔藓覆盖的自动售货机有太阳能电池板，能够储存能量保持饮料凉爽。
Similar to this is yet another machine developed by Springwise. This sleeker solar- powered refrigerator helps to keep its content at the right temperature. The solar panels recharge the batteries, which assist the machine to maintain its temperature at night and even on a cloudy day.
与此类似的是由Springwise开发的另一台机器。这台时尚的太阳能供电冰箱帮助保持其内部在合适的温度。太阳能电池板为电池充电，它可以帮助机器在夜间，甚至在阴天保持温度。
5. Solar Market
太阳能市场
You walk into a market to buy fresh organic vegetables. Now, what if the market you walk into is operated naturally? Welcome to Albuquerque Downtown Growers Market, where everything is powered by solar energy. From ATM to espresso machines, and equipment beyond that, all power-operated devices in this marketplace count upon four 240W solar panels. These rolling solar cells are strong enough to store energy and run the entire market.
你走进市场去买新鲜的有机蔬菜。现在，如果你走进的市场是自然运行的呢？欢迎来到阿尔伯克基市中心种植者市场，在那里一切都是由太阳能供电的。从ATM到意大利浓咖啡机，还有其它设备，这个市场的所有电动设备都是依靠四块240W太阳能电池板供能。这些滚动的太阳能电池能存储足够能源，运行整个市场。
6. Solar Bike Path
太阳能自行车道
A Dutch company in collaboration with the Dutch Government has created a bike path, which is about 70 meters long. This path acts like one large solar panel, generating more than 700 kilowatts of power, enough to produce electricity for two to three households in a year.
一家荷兰公司与荷兰政府合作，创造了一条大约70米长的自行车道。这条道路就像一个大太阳能电池板一样，发电量超过700千瓦，足够产生2到3户人家一年使用的电量。
The company has placed layers of silicon solar cells in between concrete slabs and a layer of tempered glass. It was a challenge to keep the top layer clean and free from dirt, so that the cells can capture the sunlight seamlessly. Moreover, the path has to be skid-resistant and strong for the bikers. However, the company was successful in developing and installing this SolaRoad within five years, spending almost $3.8 million.
该公司在混凝土板和一层钢化玻璃之间放置了一层硅太阳能电池层。保持顶层的清洁和无污垢从而使细胞能够无缝地捕捉阳光是一个挑战。此外，道路必须防滑并能承受住骑车人。然而，该公司在五年内成功开发和安装了这条太阳能路，花费了近380万美元。
