Hangover Helpers Party cleaners founder Marc Simons started off by cleaning party houses for extra cash, and then he realized that he'd managed to tap into a niche, despite the bad economy. Marc runs Hangover Helpers Party Cleaners with his high school friend, Alex Vere Nichol. Alex and Marc started their business to get by in a not so great economy after they figured out there's a lot of demand in Boulder, Colorado for people willing to clean up the leftover mess of party houses. Alex and Marc's business operates exclusively in Boulder, Colorado, a college town, although there have been plenty of requests to expand their business to other cities across America.
Daily Wake Up Call assigns customers a real live person that will call them either daily, or on a specific day that's scheduled in advance, in order to remind them of their responsibilities, daily routines, and special events. Considering the amount of people out there that have busy professional and personal lives, this is a great way to make money off other peoples' busyness, and prevent everything from forgetfulness to people sleeping through their alarm clocks.
Are you familiar with the saying: "it's like watching paint dry?" Keith Jackson knows what it's really like to watch paint dry, because he watches paint dry for a living. Keith Jackson became a professional paint dry watcher when he was 16 years old. Companies pay Keith Jackson to figure out what paint will dry fastest, time how long it takes for different types of paint to dry, and tell them when their paint will dry.
Professional cuddlers are paid to cuddle with clients that need a good snuggle. They thrive in Japan, where there's a large population of people, mostly in their 20s, who are apathetic about love and marriage, and put all of their focus on their careers, therefore they don't have time for romantic relationships. A Vice Magazine documentary on the Love Industry in Japan revealed that professional cuddlers are paid extra to do things such as dressing in outfits that anime characters wear, and cleaning client's ears with a Q-tip.
If you don't mind standing in a long line-up for extensive periods of time, this is the perfect job for you. For $36 per hour an American company called linestandings.com provides lobbyists with someone who will wait in line, at busy congressional hearings, and in China, where it's actually quite common for a bank line up to take half a day, Professional Queuer's jobs are gradually growing in popularity.
审校：庄粉玲 编辑：Freya然 来源：前十网
