 It has never been easier to find little jobs for little payments. If you are being paid through Amazon’s Mechanical Turk to tag people’s photos or being hired to put up shelves via TaskRabbit, who needs a real job? For enthusiasts, these micro-jobs mean sticking two fingers up to the Man and rejecting wage-slavery in favour of freedom. For pessimists, they are precarious ways to earn a living that offer no pension or health insurance. Welcome to the “gig economy”, a phrase that evokes both the romantic ideals and the grinding poverty of life as a journeyman musician.
 找到挣小钱的零工从未如此简单过。如果你通过亚马逊(Amazon)的土耳其机器人(Mechanical Turk)受雇，为别人标记相片，或者通过TaskRabbit受雇搭个架子，谁还需要真正的工作？对热心者来说，这些零工意味着可以向老板说不，选择自由，不做工资的奴隶。对悲观者来说，这些是不稳定的谋生方式，没有任何养老或者医疗保险。欢迎来到“零工经济”(gig economy)，这个术语让人想起零工音乐家的浪漫理想和贫困潦倒。
 The app-based gig economy is still small. Perhaps one in 200 American workers rely on it for their main source of income; nobody is really sure. Yet it seems likely to grow, and, as it grows, so will a question: does the way we link social protections to jobs make sense?
 基于APP的零工经济仍然规模很小。或许200名美国工人当中只有1人把零工作为主要收入来源；没有人真正确定。然而零工经济似乎在发展，而且随着它的发展，问题随之而来：我们将社会保障和工作联系在一起的方式明智吗？
 Details vary but most advanced countries have a list of goodies that must be provided by employers rather than the government or the individual. In the UK a full-time worker is entitled to 28 days of paid leave. In the US the default provider of health insurance is your employer. In many countries, employees cannot be sacked without long notice periods and a decent pension is the preserve of people with a decent job. As for freelancers, they may enjoy flexibility and independence and sometimes even a good living — but as far as social protections go, they are on their own.
 虽然细节方面有所不同，但大多数发达国家都有一揽子必须由雇主（而非政府或者个人提供）的福利。在英国，一名全职工人享有28天的带薪假期。在美国，默认的医保提供者是你的雇主。在许多国家，要解雇雇员必须先提供很长的通知期，而体面的养老金是有体面工作的人的专享福利。至于自由职业者，他们可能工作灵活且独立，有时甚至还能有不错的收入，但就社会保障而言，他们不得不靠自己。
 It is easy to understand the politics of this: pensions, healthcare and paid holidays are expensive, and asking employers to pick up the bill obscures their true cost. But the emergence of companies such as Uber is changing the calculus. Are Uber drivers employees or not?
 不难理解这种体制的政治逻辑：养老金、医保和带薪假期都非常昂贵，要求雇主埋单模糊了它们真正的成本。但优步(Uber)等公司的出现改变了算盘。优步司机是不是雇员？
 Uber maintains that they are not. That seems defensible: a driver can switch the app on or off at any time, or work for a competitor such as Lyft on a whim. Few employees who acted in this way would be employed for very long.
 优步宣称他们不是雇员。这似乎合乎情理：优步司机可以在任何时间启动或切断APP，或者一时心血来潮就去为Lyft等竞争对手工作。这么干的雇员很少能被长期雇佣。
 Then again, does a driver who puts in 60 or 70 hours a week providing Uber-assigned rides according to Uber-determined rules and rates not deserve some sort of security? Some authorities think so: the company has lost a number of rulings in California as judges and arbitrators have found that, in certain cases, Uber drivers are employees.
 但话说回来，一周花上60或70个小时按照优步制定的规则和费率完成其分配的接送任务，这样的司机难道不值得获得某种保障吗？一些部门认为应该获得保障：优步在加州输掉了多起官司，因为法官和仲裁员发现，在某些情况下，优步司机是雇员。
 Such judgments are likely to vary from case to case and place to place, and the uncertainty helps nobody bar the lawyers. Alan Krueger, former chairman of President Barack Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers, draws a parallel with the emergence of the workers’ compensation system a century ago. Sensible rules were agreed, he says, once lawsuits over industrial accidents became expensive and unpredictable.
 此类判决可能因案例和地方不同而有所差异，这种不确定性对任何人（除了律师以外）都没有帮助。美国总统巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)的经济顾问委员会(Council of Economic Advisers)前主席艾伦•克鲁格(Alan Krueger)将其比作一个世纪前工人赔偿制度的出现。他说，在围绕工伤事故的诉讼代价变得昂贵且不可预测后，各方就同意了明智的规则。
 But what should the new rules be? Mr Krueger’s approach is to adapt the status quo by extending some employment benefits to gig economy workers. He and his co-author, Seth Harris, recently proposed a third category of “independent workers”, neither pure freelancers nor pure employees. They receive “all the benefits that employees get”, Mr Krueger told me, “except for the ones that don’t make sense”.
 但新的规则应该是什么样子？克鲁格的方法是将一些就业福利扩大至零工经济工人来适应现状。他与其合著者塞思•哈里斯(Seth Harris)最近将这些工人称为“独立工人”，作为纯粹自由职业者和纯粹雇员以外的第三种分类。克鲁格告诉我，他们获得“雇员获得的所有福利，除了那些不合理的福利外”。
 For example, if Uber drivers enjoyed the status of independent workers, they could form or join a union, and be protected under anti-discrimination laws. Uber, for its part, might offer pensions, health insurance and other products that its drivers could find attractive without fear this would lead the courts to rule that it was an employer. But independent workers would not receive paid holiday or protection from dismissal.
 例如，如果优步司机享有独立工人的地位，他们就可以建立或加入工会，得到反歧视法律的保护。而从优步来说，它可以提供养老金、医疗保险以及其他可能让其司机觉得有吸引力的产品，而不用担心这将导致法庭裁定它是雇主。但独立工人将不会有带薪假或者解雇保护。
 The Harris-Krueger proposal is based on the idea that the current package of employment rights in the US is attractive, and that America would be a better place if it was available as widely as possible. In the eurozone, where double-digit unemployment seems to be customary, it is hard to see how most protections could be applied to independent workers — and harder still to see why that would be a progressive step.
 哈里斯-克鲁格提议建立在如下观点的基础之上：即美国当前的一揽子就业权利具有吸引力，而且如果尽可能普遍提供这些权利，美国将成为更美好的国家。在两位数失业率似乎成为常态的欧元区，很难设想多数保护如何应用于独立工人，更难看出这为什么是一个进步的举措。
 So here is a far more radical approach: we should end the policy of trying to offload the welfare state to corporations. It is a policy that hides the costs of these benefits, and ensures that they are unevenly distributed. Instead we should take a hard look at that list of goodies: healthcare, pensions, income for people who are not working. Then we should decide what the state should provide and how generously. To my mind, there is a strong argument that the state should provide all of these things, to everyone, at a very basic level. What the state will not provide, individuals must pay for themselves — or seek employers who provide these benefits as an attraction rather than a legal obligation. Call it libertarianism with a safety net.
 因此更为彻底的方法是：我们应该结束这种试图将福利国家的负担转嫁给企业的政策。这种政策隐藏了这些福利的成本，并确立了不平等的分配方式。相反，我们应该认真审视这些福利：医保、养老金以及失业金。接下来我们应该决定政府应该提供哪些福利以及福利的规模。就我看来，政府按照基本水平向所有人提供所有这些福利有着充分的理由。政府不提供的，个人必须自掏腰包，或者寻找把提供这些福利作为吸引力（而非法律义务）的雇主。我把它称为拥有保障体系的自由意志主义。
 No doubt this is just an economists’ pipe dream. Even the far tamer Harris- Krueger ideas seem unlikely to gain political traction any time soon. That is a shame. While traditional jobs suit most of us, the gig economy is perfect for some people and some circumstances. It would be a shame if our welfare state and labour laws failed to catch up.
 这无疑只是一个经济学家的白日梦。即便是温和得多的哈里斯-克鲁格观点似乎也不太可能很快获得政治支持。这令人遗憾。尽管传统工作适合我们中的大多数人，但零工经济非常适合某些人和某些情况。如果我们的福利国家制度和劳动法未能与时俱进，那将是个耻辱。
