 Two brothers with suspected links to the plotters of the November terrorist attacks in Paris were identified by Belgian prosecutors yesterday as the suicide bombers in Tuesday’s double strike on Brussels’ airport and metro system.
 比利时检方昨日认定，涉嫌与去年11月巴黎恐袭策划者有联系的两兄弟是周四布鲁塞尔机场和地铁爆炸案的自杀式炸弹袭击者。
 The revelations added to mounting evidence connecting the cells behind the Paris attack and those in Brussels. They underscored investigators’ belief that they are battling the most sophisticated and extensive Isis cell encountered in Europe.
 这一发现意味着越来越多的证据将巴黎与布鲁塞尔恐袭案背后的恐怖小组联系在一起。这些证据使调查人员相信，他们正与欧洲遭遇的最狡猾且触角甚广的“伊拉克和黎凡特伊斯兰国”(ISIS)小组较量。
 On a visit to Brussels, Manuel Valls, France’s prime minister, said seven people out of 30 known to be linked to the Paris attacks were still being hunted.
 正在布鲁塞尔访问的法国总理曼努埃尔•瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)称，目前已知与巴黎袭击案相关的30名嫌疑犯中，有7人仍然在逃。
 Federal prosecutors identified Ibrahim El Bakraoui as one of two men who blew themselves up in the departure hall of Zaventem airport while his brother, Khalid, died after detonating a device on a metro carriage in the city’s EU quarter, killing 31 people in total.
 联邦检察官认定，Ibrahim El Bakraoui是在扎芬特姆机场(Zaventem)出发大厅进行自杀式爆炸的两名男子之一，而他的兄弟Khalid在欧盟办公楼集中的布鲁塞尔市中心的一个地铁站的地铁车厢内引爆炸弹后身亡。两起爆炸案共造成31人遇难。
 The second airport suicide bomber was identified by his DNA as Najim Laachraoui, who was already implicated in last year’s Paris attacks, police told Belgian media. Belgian investigators are still trying to identify a third man seen in CCTV footage at the airport wearing a white jacket and a hat, pushing a luggage trolley.
 警方告诉比利时媒体称，通过DNA鉴定，机场第二个自杀式炸弹袭击者是早已被认定为去年巴黎恐袭嫌疑人之一的Najim Laachraoui。比利时调查人员目前仍然正在尝试识别机场闭路电视拍下的身着白色外套、头戴一顶帽子、推着行李车的第三个人。
 Both Bakraoui brothers were known to the police, raising new questions about how much the Belgian authorities were aware of the cell’s operation before the bombings. Ibrahim was sentenced to nine years in prison in 2010 after shooting at police officers after he attempted to rob a Western Union currency exchange office. Khalid was handed a five-year suspended sentence for attempted carjackings in 2011.
 此前Bakraoui两兄弟早已进入警方的视线，这引发了新问题：在爆炸发生前，比利时政府对这个恐怖小组的活动了解多少？2010年，Ibrahim因为在试图抢劫西联汇款(Western Union)的一家货币兑换店时枪击警察而被判有期徒刑9年。Khalid因2011年试图劫车而被判5年缓刑。
 Only a lucky break stopped the attack being much worse on Tuesday: the suitcase bomb carried by the suspect who later fled the airport — which contained the largest amount of explosives — failed to detonate at the right moment, according to Belgian prosecutor Frederic Van Leeuw. It went off after the departure hall had been cleared.
 比利时检察官弗雷德里克•范莱乌(Frederic Van Leeuw)表示，运气使得周二的爆炸没有更糟糕：后来逃离机场的嫌疑人所携带的行李箱炸弹——里面装着数量最多的爆炸物——未能在正确时刻引爆，而是在机场出发大厅的乘客被疏散之后才爆炸。
 Belgian authorities were also helped by a taxi driver who unwittingly drove the attackers to the airport.
 比利时当局还得到了一名在不知情的情况下把肇事者载到机场的出租车司机的帮助。
 After recognising them in footage from the attacks, the driver later took police to the building where he had picked them up in the capital’s Schaerbeek neighbourhood. Among material seized there was 15kg of TATP, a highly unstable explosive, as well as detonators, nails and screws.
 从攻击视频中认出他们之后，这位司机后来把警察带到了布鲁塞尔斯哈尔贝克区接他们上车的那栋大楼。警方查获的材料包括15千克极不稳定的炸药三聚过氧丙酮(TATP)，以及雷管、钉子和螺钉。
