NAGASAKI, Japan — When Miyako Jodai was 6 years old, the United States dropped an atomic bomb on her hometown, the port city of Nagasaki.
日本长崎——上代美也子（Miyako Jodai，音）6岁那年，美国在她的家乡，也就是港口城市长崎投下了一颗原子弹。
She was knocked unconscious, and her home was destroyed. She spent the next several days huddling with dozens of others in a cave on the side of a mountain.
她被冲击波震得晕了过去，她家的房屋亦被摧毁。随后几天，她和数十上百人一起挤在山上的一个洞穴里。
“I was so scared,” she said. “I was crying and I stepped on some of the bodies of the injured people, because there was no room to walk.” When she finally ventured out, the city was still ablaze with towering flames.
“由于极度恐惧，”她说，“我一直大哭，而且洞里根本无路可走，我只好从伤者的身体上踏过。”当她最终冒险走出去时，城市中仍然闪耀着冲天的火焰。
Ms. Jodai was one of the fortunate ones. The bomb dropped on Nagasaki the morning of Aug. 9, 1945, killed about 74,000 people, about half as many as those who died in the bombing of Hiroshima three days earlier.
上代美也子是幸存者之一。于1945年8月9日早上落在长崎的那颗原子弹共导致约7.4万人死亡，为三天前广岛原子弹爆炸致死人数的一半左右。
On Friday, President Obama will become the first sitting American president since the end of World War II to visit Hiroshima. Nagasaki is not on the itinerary.
本周五，奥巴马将成为二战结束后首位到访广岛的在任美国总统。长崎不在他的行程之中。
While invoking Hiroshima has become a universal shorthand for the horrors of nuclear war, Nagasaki, on the southwestern island of Kyushu, has mostly lived in the other city’s shadow.
谈及核战争的恐怖，人们通常会立刻想起广岛，而位于日本西南部岛屿九州岛上的长崎，一直以来基本处于前者的阴影之下。
“We know that the very highest mountain in Japan is Mount Fuji,” said Tomihisa Taue, the mayor of Nagasaki, in an interview in his office. “But we don’t know the second-highest mountain.”
“我们知道日本最高峰是富士山(Mount Fuji)，”长崎市长田上富久(Tomihisa Taue)在其办公室里接受采访时说，“但我们并不知道第二高峰是哪座。”
Yet many in Nagasaki recognize that Hiroshima, in some ways, stands in for both cities. They say the message they want the world to take from Mr. Obama’s visit — that nuclear weapons must never again be used — does not require that he set foot in their city.
不过，许多长崎人承认，广岛在某种程度上代表着两座城市。他们希望世人能从奥巴马的这次访问中认清，永远也不该再次使用核武器，他们说这一讯息无须奥巴马踏足他们的城市也能被传达出去。
Mr. Taue suggested that Nagasaki could also serve as a potent coda to Hiroshima’s opening of the nuclear age. “I would like the president to say, from Nagasaki to the world, that this site should be the last place on earth to experience the atomic bombing,” he said.
田上富久指出，应该让长崎原爆为广岛原爆所开启的核时代划上一个有力的句号。“我希望奥巴马总统会说，从长崎到全世界，这里应该是地球上最后一个遭到原子弹爆炸的地方，”他说。
That Nagasaki was bombed second has made it an afterthought in the history of and debate over nuclear weapons, even though many historians argue that the bombing was harder to justify precisely because it was a repeated act.
长崎是第二个被轰炸的城市，这让长崎原爆在核武器史上以及关于核武器的讨论中处于次要地位，但很多历史学家都表示，此次原爆的正当性更难以辩护，因为它是重复之举。
If one accepts President Harry S. Truman’s rationale that the Hiroshima bombing was necessary to force Japan’s surrender and end the war, the moral calculus for dropping a second bomb on a civilian population three days later is more contentious.
哈里·S·杜鲁门(Harry S. Truman)认为，为了迫使日本投降进而结束战争，有必要用原子弹轰炸广岛，如果说这一理由还能被接受的话，那么三天后又向平民投下第二颗原子弹，绝对是在道德层面更具争议的做法。
Close to 700,000 people a year visit the Nagasaki Atomic Bomb Museum, compared with nearly 1.5 million at the Hiroshima Peace Memorial, where Mr. Obama will lay a wreath on Friday.
每年有将近70万人次参观长崎原爆资料馆(Nagasaki Atomic Bomb Museum)，相比之下，每年有将近150万人次参观广岛和平纪念资料馆(Hiroshima Peace Memorial)，周五，奥巴马将在那里献上花圈。
Even in the office of the Nagasaki Atomic Bomb Survivors’ Council, a sticker on a cabinet illustrates the city’s secondary status — “No More Hiroshimas: End the Arms Race Now.”
即便是在长崎原爆幸存者委员会(Nagasaki Atomic Bomb Survivors’ Council)的办公室里，也能从文件柜上的一张贴纸看出这座城市的次要地位，那上面写着，“广岛悲剧不容重演：立即结束军备竞赛。”
Ms. Jodai, now 76 and a retired schoolteacher, said she admired the president’s decision to visit Hiroshima and understood that his schedule did not allow him to visit both cities. Still, she said, the Nagasaki survivors should at least be invited to the ceremony in Hiroshima.
现年76岁的上代美也子是一名退休教师，她对奥巴马总统出访广岛表示钦佩，说她明白总统行程紧张无法到访两座城市。但她认为，长崎的幸存者至少应该受邀参加在广岛举行的纪念仪式。
“I feel like Nagasaki has been abandoned and thrown away,” she said.
“我感觉长崎已经被遗忘和抛弃了，”她说。
As Japan wrestles with its own history of wartime atrocities, and as scholars and politicians here and in the United States continue to debate the use of the atomic bomb, Nagasaki, in many ways, offers a more complex narrative than Hiroshima does.
当日本纠结于本国历史上的战时暴行，日美两国学者和政客仍在讨论原子弹使用问题的时候，相较于广岛，长崎所提供的故事在许多方面都更为复杂。
One of the earliest Japanese cities to have contact with traders from the West, including Portuguese and Dutch explorers, Nagasaki is also the oldest and densest stronghold of Roman Catholicism in Japan.
长崎是最早同西方商人——包括来自葡萄牙和荷兰的探险家——接触的日本城市之一，它同时也是罗马天主教在日本最古老的、信众最多的据点。
When American pilots dropped the bomb, the devastation swept across Urakami Cathedral, then the largest cathedral in East Asia. About 8,000 Catholics in the area were killed. For the Nagasaki Christians, long ostracized in Japan over their faith, it was a bitter truth that their community was destroyed by a predominantly Christian nation, in a mission blessed by a Roman Catholic chaplain.
当美国飞行员投下原子弹的时候，浦上天主堂(Urakami Cathedral)被夷为平地，它当时是东亚地区最大的天主教堂。当地约有8000名天主教徒遇难。对于因为坚持信仰而长期受到日本社会排斥的长崎基督徒而言，有一个事实极为苦涩：他们的家园是被一个基督徒占多数的国家摧毁的，相关行动得到了一位罗马天主教随军牧师的祝福。
Nagasaki’s Catholic heritage, combined with Hiroshima’s vocal role as a center of antinuclear activities, helped give rise to the Japanese saying “Ikari no Hiroshima, inori no Nagasaki,” or “Hiroshima rages, Nagasaki prays.”
长崎拥有天主教传统，再加上广岛作为反核行动中心一直在高调发声，于是日本就有了这样一句俗语：“愤怒的广岛，祈祷的长崎。”
At a 6 a.m. Mass on Monday morning, about 100 parishioners sat in long wooden pews in the cathedral, rebuilt not far from its original site. Ritsuo Hisashi, the head priest, said he was less concerned about whether Nagasaki was commemorated as a global symbol than about the call for the elimination of nuclear weapons.
浦上天主堂已经在原址附近重建，周一早上6点的弥撒时间，大约100名教友坐在教堂里的木质长椅上。主任司祭久志利津男(Ritsuo Hisashi)说，相较于长崎是否被世界各地的人们当作一个符号来纪念，他更关心的是呼吁消除核武器的声音。
Nagasaki’s archdiocese, along with 15 others in Japan, also opposes efforts by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to overhaul the country’s pacifist Constitution, imposed by the United States after the war.
长崎的主教辖区以及日本的另外15个主教辖区，都反对首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)修改和平宪法之举，该宪法是在战后由美国监督制定的。
Nagasaki’s leaders have also been forthright in their reckonings with Japan’s wartime actions before the United States dropped the bombs.
在对美国投下原子弹之前日本的战时行径进行反思这方面，长崎领导人一直态度鲜明。
In 1990, Hitoshi Motoshima, then Nagasaki’s mayor, was shot and wounded by a right-wing nationalist after he suggested that Emperor Hirohito bore some responsibility for World War II.
在1990年，时任长崎市长本岛等(Hitoshi Motoshima)曾指出，裕仁天皇(Emperor Hirohito)对“二战”负有部分责任，此后遭一右翼民族主义者枪击并负伤。
Around the same time, a city assemblyman, Masaharu Oka, founded a museum to commemorate the Korean laborers who were conscripted to work in wartime factories in Nagasaki and who were either killed or wounded by the atomic bomb.
与此同期，长崎市议员冈正治(Masaharu Oka)创办了一家资料馆，以纪念被强征至长崎的战时工厂里工作，因原子弹爆炸而死亡或受伤的那些朝鲜劳工。
Housed in a former Chinese restaurant up a steep hill, the museum has a decidedly handmade feel. In addition to photographs of Korean survivors and a replica of the cramped quarters where Korean laborers lived, the museum displays a gallery of graphic photos from the Rape of Nanjing in China and of Unit 731, the biological and chemical warfare research facility where Japanese scientists experimented on humans in China.
该资料馆位于一个陡峭的山坡上，由一家中国餐馆改造而成，带有很明显的手工风格。除了朝鲜幸存者的照片以及朝鲜劳工所住拥挤宿舍的复制品，资料馆还陈列着大量与南京大屠杀以及731部队行径有关的令人不安的照片。731部队是日本设在中国的一个生化武器研究机构，日本科学家曾在那里做人体实验。
Toshiaki Shibata, the former secretary general of the Masaharu Oka museum and the son of two bomb survivors, said he was glad Mr. Obama would not visit Nagasaki. Mr. Shibata, 65, whose dyed lavender hair gives him an impish air, contends that Mr. Obama’s visit is aimed at bolstering Mr. Abe’s efforts to change the Constitution and draw Japan into war.
冈正治和平资料馆前秘书长柴田俊明（Toshiaki Shibata，音）的双亲都是原爆幸存者，他说奥巴马不来长崎反而让他感到高兴。柴田俊明今年65岁，染成淡紫色的头发给他增加了一丝顽皮的气息。他认为奥巴马此行是为了给鼓吹修宪，试图把日本拖入战争的安倍提供支持。
“It would be better if he doesn’t come here,” Mr. Shibata said.
“他不到这儿来还好点儿，”柴田俊明说。
Yoshitoshi Fukahori, 87, a bomb survivor, said he did not quite understand the fuss about the president’s visit. While he welcomes it, and hopes Mr. Obama will speak of a nuclear-free world, he said he was not expecting much. A visit to Nagasaki, he said, is not necessary.
87岁的原爆幸存者深堀芳年（Yoshitoshi Fukahori，音）说，他不明白为什么奥巴马来访会搅起这么多波澜。虽然他对此次访问表示欢迎，而且希望奥巴马能谈及无核世界的话题，但他说自己不抱太多期望。没必要来长崎，他说。
“After long experience, I see people get their hopes up, and then are disappointed,” he said. “So I don’t want to put too much stock in words.”
“这么长时间过去，我看到人们燃起希望，然后又感到失望，”他说。“所以我不太看重口头上的那一套。”
