When the 2011 Iranian film A Separation swept across the international cinema land scape winning a string of major kudos, it also swept many Chinese cinephiles off their feet.
2011年伊朗电影《一次别离》席卷了国际电影市场并获得了一连串的褒奖，它也使得很多中国影迷为之神魂颠倒。
Here is a movie that cost a mere $300,000 and tells a simple tale of two families, an antithesis to the glamour of screen portrayals, but it sheds light on a country with its education, religion, class, gender roles, among others.
这部仅仅花费了30万美元的电影讲述了一个有关两个家庭的简单故事，展现的是屏幕形象魅力的对立面，但它揭示了一个国家的教育、宗教、阶级、性别角色等问题。
Best of all, it is a gentle probe into the core of humanity, making it accessible to those with no knowledge to the country where the movie was made, or even to those hostile to it.
最重要的是，这部电影温和地探究到了人性深处,并将之呈现给了不了解伊朗甚至仇视伊朗的人们。
While many are ignorant about the country per se, they are fascinated by what Iranian filmmakers have to offer – something that is the opposite of Hollywood blockbusters.
很多人忽略了这个国家本身，他们被伊朗电影制作人所拍摄的与好莱坞大片不同的内容所吸引。
Iranian films are often about families and friends, daily routines that do not lend readily to screen dramatization.
伊朗电影描述的通常是家庭、朋友以及不容易产生戏剧冲突的日常生活。
Yet many of these works are engrossing because they show the microscopic nuances of human dynamics within these limited ranges.
但很多这样的作品却是引人入胜的，因为它们在这些有限的范围内表现出了人类行为微观上的细微差异。
Abbas Kiarostami is an Iranian film master who is held in very high regard in China. Scholarly pieces and volumes have been devoted to the analysis and appreciation of his films, including Taste of Cherry and The Wind Will Carry Us.
阿巴斯·基阿鲁斯达米是在中国受到很高评价的伊朗电影大师。很多学术作品都致力于分析鉴赏他的电影，包括《樱桃的滋味》和《随风而逝》。
It can be challenging for the uninitiated to sit through an Abbas film, which is not strong on plot, to say the least.
让一个外行人看完整部阿巴斯的电影是极具挑战性的，因为至少它的故事情节性不强。
But those who love him have discovered a vast world of its own.
但是喜欢阿巴斯的人已经发现了一个广阔的世界。
Other than films, poems and photographs of the master have also graced Chinese pages and galleries.
除了电影，这位大师的诗句和照片也在中国的网页和画廊受到欢迎。
Iran also has movies that are not abstruse, but rather, deceptively simple and poignantly humanistic.
伊朗也有不那么难理解的电影，但看似简单却有着强烈的人文意味。
The 1997 family drama Children of Heaven, often translated as Small Shoes in Chinese, has warmed many Chinese hearts.
1997年的家庭剧情片《天堂的孩子》，通常也译作《小鞋子》温暖了很多中国人的心。
It is about a boy from a disenfranchised family who lost his little sister’s shoes and went through many adventures for a pair of replacement.
它讲述了一个来自被剥夺了公民权家庭的小男孩丢失了妹妹的鞋子之后为得到一双新鞋子历尽磨难的故事。
On the Chinese website douban for reviews, the movie has a score of 9.1, averaged from over 100,000 viewers.
在中国的豆瓣网上，这部电影在超过10万人的观众中平均评分高达9.1。
Zhang Yang, a Chinese film director, used Iranian cinema as a reference point: "I feel that you do not need to choose an anti-social or political subject to stand out, but rather, to discover the humanity in daily routines and trivialities, the kind of small things one takes for granted, and that will elevate you to a higher artistic status."
一位叫张扬的中国电影导演，使用伊朗电影作为参考。“我觉得没有必要选择反社会或者强调政治敏感的主题，而应该着力于发现日常生活和琐事中的人性，这类被认为是理所当然的小事恰恰能够将你送到一个新的艺术高度。”
A married couple is faced with a difficult decision: to improve the life of their child by moving to another country or to stay in Iran and look after a deteriorating parent who has Alzheimer's disease.
一对已婚夫妇正面临一个困难的决定：离开伊朗，提高孩子的生活质量？或是留在伊朗，照顾老年痴呆病情不断恶化的老父亲？
Irreverent city engineer Behzad comes to a rural village in Iran to keep vigil over a dying relative. In the meantime, the film follows his efforts to fit in with the local community and as a result, how he changes his own attitudes.
无礼的城市工程师为了给死去的亲人守夜而来到一个乡村。影片同时也关注了他努力融入当地生活的过程以及他最后如何改变了自己的态度。
An middle-aged man drives his truck in search of someone who will quietly bury him under a cherry tree after he commits suicide.
中年男子开车寻找一个能在他自杀后将他埋葬在樱桃树底下的人。
After a boy loses his sister's pair of shoes, he goes on a series of adventures to find them. When he can't, he tries a new way to "win" a new pair.
小男孩丢失了妹妹的鞋子，在后来的寻找过程中，经历了一系列的历险。当他没有能力找回鞋子时，小男孩尝试了新方法去“赢得”新的一双。
After the southwestern earthquake, the film director and his son travel to the devastated area to search for the actors in the movie the director made there a few years ago. In their search, they learn how people who had lost everything in the earthquake still have hope and try to rebuild their homes.
伊朗西北部大地震后，导演带着儿子到被毁地区寻找几年前的演员。在寻找的过程中，他们发现在地震中失去一切的人们仍有生活的希望并努力重建家园。
An 8-year-old boy makes every effort to return a friend's notebook he took by mistake, lest his friend be punished by expulsion from school.
8岁的小男孩为了使朋友免受开除出校的惩罚，尽一切努力归还不小心拿错的作业本。
