The introduction of a women-only bus in one Chinese city has riled some local men and sparked an online debate.
中国某城市引入女性专用公交。此举令当地部分男性不满的同时，也在网络上引发热议。
The new summer service will run during morning and evening rush hours in Zhengzhou, in an effort to cut the number of groping incidents, Dahe Daily reports. The local bus company says it'll protect women from being harassed when wearing lighter clothing, and also help breastfeeding mothers feel more comfortable.
据《大河报》报道，为了降低性骚扰发生率，郑州在夏日早晚高峰期推出了这个“防狼”新举措。当地公交公司称，女性专车能保护“穿得清凉”的女士免受骚扰，而且也方便了乘公交哺乳孩子的女性。
Female-only train and metro carriages have been introduced in many countries with varying degrees of success, but single-sex transport is a relatively new concept in China.
虽然不少国家都推出过女性专用列车、女性专用地铁车厢等，并取得了不同程度的成功，但男女隔离式公共交通，在中国还是个新鲜事儿。
Women interviewed on board the bus said they were pleased with the service, with one telling a reporter: "Of course this is a good idea, it is very respectful to women."
受访的女乘客纷纷表示对这项服务非常满意。其中一位乘客告诉记者：“这个主意简直太好了，是尊重女性的表现。”
But some local men are less impressed. One tells Dahe Daily that harassment isn't common on public transport: "The bus company has made a fuss over it - this measure will cause men to feel humiliated." Another man complains to China National Radio: "I had to wait a really long time for another bus to arrive because I wasn't allowed on."
不过当地不少男乘客可不这么想。一人在接受《大河报》采访时称，公交上并不常发生性骚扰：“公交公司就是小题大做，简直是歧视男性。”另一人在接受中央人民广播电台采访时说：“因为不让男性上车，所以我得花很长时间等下一辆公交。”
A video that has gone viral shows an elderly man remonstrating with the driver after being denied boarding. "You're discriminating against me! This is a public bus!" he shouts. Others appear unfazed, and wander off in search of another service.
网上热传的一个视频显示，一位老年男性乘客被拒绝上车后，开始向司机发出抗议，高喊：“你这是歧视！这是公共交通！”其他人好像倒没什么所谓，纷纷去寻找其他乘车途径了。
It's become a hot topic of debate on microblogging site Weibo, with lots of women welcoming the idea, although one notes: "Not all men are bad, but aren't all men being discriminated against here?" There's support from male users too, although some think it promotes a general distrust of men. Many also feel an exception should have been made for the elderly man in the video.
此事在新浪微博上引发热议，很多女性赞赏这一举措。不过，有一位女性写道：“男人也不都是坏人，这样一来岂不是把所有男性都排除在外了？”虽然有男性认为这会招致对男性的广泛的不信任，但也有男性持支持态度。还有人觉得，对于像视频中那样的老年男性，应当给予特例，允许上车。
