Sharp’s share price jumped 7 per cent in Tokyo on Monday after the chief executive of Foxconn said he could turn the company round in just three years if the Japanese government would let him.
富士康(Foxconn)首席执行官表示，只要日本政府允许，他能在三年内让夏普(Sharp)重新实现盈利，在东京上市的夏普周一股价应声上涨7%。
In remarks reported on Saturday, Terry Gou told the Central News Agency of Taiwan he could get the group to break even within two years.
郭台铭(Terry Gou)上周六对台湾中央社表示，他可以在两年内令该集团实现盈亏平衡。
Mr Gou is founder of Foxconn, the world’s largest contract electronics manufacturer, also known as Hon Hai Precision Industry. His comments followed meetings with Sharp in Osaka.
郭台铭是全球最大的电子产品代工制造商——富士康的创始人，该公司的另一个名称是鸿海精密工业股份有限公司(Hon Hai Precision Industry)。他是在与夏普在大阪开会后发表上述言论的。
The remarks highlight the enduring value of Sharp’s technology and Mr Gou’s interest in the struggling company. They put pressure on Tokyo to let him invest in an icon of the Japanese electronics industry.
郭台铭的言论突显了夏普在技术方面的持久价值，以及郭台铭对这家挣扎中的企业的兴趣。这番言论给东京方面带来压力，要求其允许他投资于日本电子行业的标志性企业。
Sharp has fallen into a deep crisis after its world-leading solar cell and liquid crystal display businesses fell prey to cheaper competitors in Taiwan and China, then Apple decimated its top position in the Japanese mobile phone market.
近年夏普陷入严峻危机，因为其世界领先的太阳能电池和液晶显示屏(LCD)业务不敌台湾和中国大陆更为廉价的竞争对手，而苹果(Apple)彻底击溃了夏普在日本手机市场的霸主地位。
According to CNA, Mr Gou said that unlike when he invested in Sharp’s LCD unit three years ago, the problem was not opposition from the company. In 2012, Mr Gou bought a 38 per cent stake in Sharp’s large LCD business through a personal investment vehicle.
据中央社报道，郭台铭表示，现在的情况跟他三年前投资夏普LCD业务时不同，问题并不是该公司的反对。2012年，郭台铭通过一件个人投资工具，收购了夏普大型LCD业务38%的股份。
This time, he said, the Innovation Network Corporation of Japan, a government-backed fund, was worried about exporting Sharp’s technology.
他说，这一次，一个由政府支持的基金——日本产业革新机构(INCJ)对输出夏普的技术感到担心。
The INCJ is behind the merger of Sony, Toshiba and Hitachi’s display operations into Japan Display. It has been trying to arrange its own rescue plan for Sharp.
INCJ是促成索尼(Sony)、东芝(Toshiba)和日立(Hitachi)三家的显示器业务合并成日本显示器公司(Japan Display)的机构。该基金正试图安排自己对夏普的拯救计划。
After years of struggle, Sharp has fallen into a renewed crisis with a net loss of Y83.6bn in the first half of the current fiscal year, due to the plunging price of LCD panels for smartphones.
挣扎多年后，夏普已陷入一轮新的危机，随着智能手机LCD面板价格骤跌，本财年上半年该公司净亏损836亿日元。
The company is cutting thousands of jobs. It has pulled out of the North American television market and in June sold Y225bn of preference shares to its lending banks to shore up the balance sheet.
该公司正要裁减数千职位。它已退出北美电视机市场，并在今年6月向贷款银行出售了2250亿日元的优先股以支撑其资产负债表。
But the losses mean Sharp is still in a fragile position, with just Y181bn of equity supporting a Y1,787bn balance sheet, meaning it must either raise more funds or sell out.
然而巨大的亏损意味着夏普仍处于资金脆弱的地位，17870亿日元的资产负债表仅靠1810亿日元股本支持，这意味着它必须要么筹措更多资本，要么出售资产。
A report by Kyodo News, claiming Foxconn is willing to pay Y300bn ($2.49bn) to acquire Sharp in full, added to the share price rally.
共同社一篇报道称，富士康愿意斥资3000亿日元（合24.9亿美元）全盘收购夏普，这进一步提振了夏普股价。
At Y118, the share price was still down by 56 per cent during 2015, far below the levels above Y2,000 it traded at a decade ago. At current prices, Sharp has a market capitalisation of about Y200bn.
目前118日元的股价仍相当于在2015年下跌了56%，远远低于10年前每股2000日元的价位。按目前价格计算，夏普的市值约为2000亿日元。
