Kim Jong Un, North Korea’s leader has promised to “improve and normalise” relations with countries that have been hostile in the past, even as he pushes to accelerate its nuclear weapons programme.
朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong Un)承诺要与过去处于敌对关系的国家“改善关系，实现关系正常化”，即便他正在推动加速朝鲜的核武器计划。
In speeches broadcast on state television, Mr Kim said his foreign policy is one of “independence, peace and friendship”. He pledged not to use nuclear weapons unless nuclear-armed “aggressive hostile forces” encroach upon his country’s sovereignty.
金正恩在朝鲜官方电视台播出的演讲中表示，朝鲜的外交政策是“独立、和平、友好的”。他承诺，除非拥有核武器的“侵略性敌对势力”侵犯朝鲜主权，否则朝鲜不会首先使用核武器。
Under North Korea’s definition of sovereignty his statement does not appear to rule out an attack on the US or South Korea. The regime regards the latter as an illegitimate state occupying the southern part of Pyongyang’s rightful territory.
根据朝鲜对国家主权的定义，他的声明似乎并未排除对美国或韩国发起攻击。平壤方面将韩国视为占领其南方合法领土的非法国家。
“The Worker’s Party of Korea and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea [North Korea’s official name] government will improve and normalise relations with those countries which respect the sovereignty of the DPRK and are friendly towards it, though they had been hostile toward it in the past,” Mr Kim said at a speech in the capital to a rare party congress being held to solidify the 33-year-old’s grip on power and usher in an era of reform.
在平壤举行的劳动党代表大会上，金正恩表示：“即使是过去与朝鲜处于敌对关系的国家，只要对方尊重朝鲜主权，与朝鲜友好相处，朝鲜劳动党、朝鲜民主主义人民共和国就将与之改善关系，实现关系正常化。”此次罕见召开劳动党代表大会是为了巩固这位33岁领导人对国家权力的控制，并开启一个改革时代。
Mr Kim also proposed holding military talks with South Korea to ease tension on the border and to bring peace and unification to the peninsula.
金正恩还提议与韩国举行军事会谈，以缓和边境紧张局势，实现朝鲜半岛的和平与统一。
Seoul rejected Pyongyang’s olive branch, calling it a propaganda ploy that lacked sincerity.
首尔方面拒绝了平壤伸出的橄榄枝，称此举为一个缺乏诚意的宣传伎俩。
“The North’s proposal is merely its propaganda drive with no sincerity as it speaks of inter-Korean dialogue while continuing to develop a nuclear arsenal,” said the unification ministry in charge of inter-Korean relations.
负责南北关系的韩国统一部表示：“北韩一边谈南北对话，一边继续发展核武器，其提议只是一种宣传策略，毫无诚意。”
Seoul urged Pyongyang to move toward denuclearisation if it is sincere about rapprochement and unification.
首尔方面表示，如果平壤真心实意要实现南北和解与统一，应该向无核化迈进。
“South Korea and the international community have the same stance that North Korea should not be recognised as a nuclear-powered state,” the ministry said.
“韩国与国际社会立场一致，即不应承认北韩为一个核国家。”
KCNA, the totalitarian state’s media outlet, said Mr Kim’s speeches served “as an encyclopedic political programme giving a perfect solution to all problems”.
朝鲜官方的朝中社(KCNA)形容金正恩的讲话是“完美解决所有问题的百科全书式的政治纲领”。
Analysts and officials in South Korea and the US had been expecting Mr Kim to launch a fifth nuclear test in the coming days as part of celebrations surrounding the congress but several analysts said his latest remarks make that less likely.
韩美两国的分析人士与官员此前预期，金正恩将在未来几天进行第五次核试验，作为此次党代会庆祝活动的一部分，但多位分析人士表示，其最新表态使这样做的可能性变得不大。
