 International movie festivals usually draw crowds of film buffs, hoping to see the latest cinematic marvels to hit the big screen.
 国际电影节总能吸引不少电影发烧友，他们希望见证新晋影史传奇在大银幕上的风光。
 This year’s Beijing International Film Festival, which runs from April 16 to 23, offers a long lineup of critically acclaimed films, many of which dissect the trials of youth. These films forgo the themes typically associated with young people – treacly romance, everlasting friendship–in favor of more complex meditations on life. Their protagonists, young as they are, confront invisible forces far greater than themselves, pressures and anxieties that stretch back for generations.
 今年的北京国际电影节于4月16日至23日举办，届时将展映大批口碑极佳的电影，其中不乏剖析、审视青年人的佳作。这些电影通过融合常与年轻人联系在一起的两大主题——甜蜜的爱情和永恒的友谊，突出了对生活的多重反思。电影中年轻的主人公们要面对自己难以克服的无形力量，他们面临着几代人共有的压力和焦虑。
 The Intern, for instance, depicts a young entrepreneur striving to balance her career and family. Another anglophone film, Brooklyn, transports viewers from a small Irish town to New York City, where its heroine learns to thrive in a growing Irish immigrant community. A third English-language film, Straight Outta Compton, dramatizes the real-life ascent of a group of young rappers who take music as a platform to denounce racial injustice.
 以电影《实习生》为例，它讲述了一个年轻企业家试图平衡事业和家庭的故事。另外一部英语电影《布鲁克林》则把观众从一个爱尔兰小镇带到了纽约，电影的女主人公必须学习如何在快速壮大的爱尔兰移民团体中成长。第三部英文电影《冲出康普顿》则改编自一群年轻说唱歌手真实的励志故事，他们以音乐为平台，谴责种族歧视。
 There are also stories that reinterpret the meaning of family and emphasize the weight increasingly placed on young shoulders. Our Little Sister explores what happens when three young women adopt their stepsister, while the immigration drama Dheepan presents a family bound not by blood, but by necessity.
 还有影片重新诠释了家庭的意义，聚焦年轻人肩上越来越沉重的责任。《海街日记》探讨了三姐妹接纳同父异母的妹妹之后会发生什么，而移民电影《流浪的迪潘》则展现了一个不以血缘而以需求为纽带的家庭。
 Each of these films showcases what it means to be young–and all the uncertainties that entails. They’re sure to leave you inspired, as you walk out of the cinema.
 每部电影都向我们展示了年轻意味着什么，以及它包含的所有不确定性。当你走出电影院，它们一定会让你有所感悟。
 Brooklyn
 《布鲁克林》
 Directed by John Crowley Ireland/UK
 导演：约翰•克劳利 爱尔兰/英国
 Brooklyn is a film about a young Irish girl who must choose between two lovers and two countries at the same time.
 电影《布鲁克林》讲述了一个年轻爱尔兰女孩必须同时在两个爱人和两个国家之间做出选择的故事。
 Adapted from Irish novelist Colm Toibin’s best selling novel, Brooklyn is set in both Ireland and US, the two countries that the protagonist Eilis (Saoirse Ronan) calls home. In her native Ireland, Eilis had few prospects, an underpaid job and a grim future in a small town. When she immigrates to the US, she feels homesick but nevertheless finds her niche. She starts to attend night school in accounting, has a promising career and finds love with a handsome Italian-American named Tony (Emory Cohen).
 电影改编自爱尔兰作家科尔姆•托宾的畅销小说，《布鲁克林》的背景设定在爱尔兰和美国，这两个国家都是主人公艾莉丝（西尔莎•罗南饰）口中的家乡。在出生地爱尔兰，艾莉丝在一个小镇里过着毫无希望的生活，干着收入微薄的工作，面临着残酷的未来。当移民到美国后，她开始思念故乡，尽管如此，她还是找到了自己的位置。她开始上夜校学习会计，找到了一份前途大好的工作，还和意大利帅哥托尼（艾莫里•科恩饰）坠入爱河。
 Complications arise when Eilis returns to Ireland for her sister’s funeral. During her brief stay, she becomes more in demand than she’d ever imagined. She gets a job as an accountant and attracts the attention of a desirable local bachelor, Jim Farrell (Domhnall Gleeson).
 当艾莉丝返回爱尔兰参加姐姐的葬礼时，新的状况出现了。在爱尔兰的短暂停留，她发现自己变得比想象中更受欢迎。她找到了一份会计的工作，还受到了当地优质单身汉吉姆•法雷尔（多姆纳尔•格里森饰）的青睐。
 Like many young people, Eilis stands at a crossroad. The decisions she makes will ultimately determine whom she spends the rest of her life with, where she lives and what career she pursues. Eilis’ struggles in the US have transformed her from a fearful girl into a confident, self-reliant woman, and it is her newfound insight into her own character that allows her to make the fateful choice.
 和许多年轻人一样，艾莉丝站在了人生的十字路口。她的选择将决定她将和谁共度一生，在哪里生活，追求怎样的事业。在美国奋斗的经历让这个曾经恐惧不安的女孩成为了自信、独立的女人，也正是她新发现的自己个性中的洞察力，让她能够做出命运的选择。
 For over a century, American cinema has explored the immigrant experience, and an array of movies have depicted the struggles of migrants coming to the US. What makes Brooklyn fresh is its small town story and empowered female protagonist who feels torn between different worlds. “In Ireland, Eilis is a daughter with a history; in America she is a woman with a future; in both she is filled with displaced longing,” Guardian movie critic Mark Kermode wrote.
 一个多世纪以来，美国电影一直在探究移民的经历，不少影片描绘了初来美国的移民的艰难奋斗。而让《布鲁克林》与众不同的则是它讲述的小镇故事和它赋予女主人公选择两个不同世界的权利，这个抉择让她心痛。英国《卫报》电影评论员马克•柯默德写道：“在爱尔兰，艾莉丝是个有故事的女儿；而在美国她是一个有未来的女性；而无论哪个选择都让她有背井离乡的感觉。”
