Julian Assange on Friday claimed “victory” in his legal battle against UK and Swedish authorities after a UN panel said the WikiLeaks founder should be allowed to walk free after his three and a half year confinement at the Ecuadorean embassy in London.
朱利安阿桑奇(Julian Assange)周五宣称他对英国和瑞典当局发起的法律战取得了“胜利”，此前联合国一个工作小组表示，已在伦敦厄瓜多尔驻英使馆避难三年半的维基解密(WikiLeaks)创始人应该被允许获得自由。
A statement by the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention said Mr Assange’s confinement amounted to “arbitrary detention” and that he should be afforded “the right to compensation”.
联合国任意拘留问题工作小组(UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention)发表的一份声明称，阿桑奇被迫困于厄瓜多尔驻英使馆一事，相当于受到“任意拘留”，他应当得到“赔偿权利”。
Mr Assange, an Australian, was originally arrested in London in 2010 under a European warrant issued by Sweden, where he was sought for questioning in relation to sexual assault and rape allegations.
澳大利亚籍的阿桑奇最初于2010年在伦敦被捕，警方的依据是瑞典签发的一份欧洲逮捕令，瑞典方面要求将他缉拿归案，接受有关性侵和强奸指控的讯问。
He was granted asylum by Ecuador and entered the country’s embassy in Knightsbridge, London, after the UK Supreme Court ruled the extradition against him could go ahead.
在英国最高法院裁定对他的引渡可以执行后，阿桑奇设法获得厄瓜多尔庇护，并躲进该国位于伦敦骑士桥(Knightsbridge)地区的大使馆。
Mr Assange denied the allegations but was reluctant to fight the claims in Sweden for fear of being transferred to the US, where he could face official secrecy and anti-espionage charges that could see him jailed for life.
阿桑奇否认上述指控，但不愿到瑞典抗辩，担心被移交给美国，他在美国可能面临泄露官方机密和间谍罪名，若被定罪可能被判终身监禁。
This followed WikiLeaks’ release of thousands of secret US government documents on the internet, including highly sensitive diplomatic cables which US officials say put its agents at risk and caused embarrassment for America’s allies.
此前维基解密在互联网上发布了数以千计的美国政府秘密文件，包括一些高度敏感的外交电文，美国官员们表示，这些文件被泄露，使美国的一线特工陷入险境，还让美国的盟友难堪。
Speaking from inside the embassy on Friday, a bearded Mr Assange welcomed the report as a “serious finding”, adding it was a “vindication” and “victory” which “brought a smile to my face and I hope many others as well”.
周五，蓄起胡须的阿桑奇在厄瓜多尔驻英使馆发表讲话，对联合国工作小组的报告表示欢迎，称其为“严肃的调查结论”，并补充称，它相当于“洗冤”和“胜利”，“给我的脸上带来微笑，我希望也给其他很多人带来微笑”。
A UK government spokesperson had earlier rejected the findings and said the ruling “changes nothing” and that it will formally contest the UN panel’s opinion.
早些时候，英国政府发言人拒绝接受调查结果，称这一裁定“改变不了什么”，英国将正式抗辩联合国工作小组的意见。
“Julian Assange has never been arbitrarily detained by the UK. The opinion of the UN Working Group ignores the facts and the well-recognised protections of the British legal system,” the spokesperson said.
“朱利安·阿桑奇从未被英国任意拘留。联合国工作小组的意见忽略了相关事实和英国司法制度所提供的广受公认的保护，”这名发言人表示。
A UK statement said Mr Assange was “voluntarily avoiding lawful arrest by choosing to remain in the Ecuadorean embassy”.
英国官方的一份声明称，阿桑奇“自愿选择滞留厄瓜多尔使馆，以逃避合法逮捕”。
It said an allegation of rape was still outstanding and a European arrest warrant in place, so the UK continues to have a legal obligation to extradite him to Sweden.
声明称，强奸指控和欧洲逮捕令仍然有效，因此英国在法律上仍有义务把他引渡到瑞典。
The statement said the UK was “deeply frustrated that this unacceptable situation is still being allowed to continue” and called on Ecuador to “engage with Sweden in good faith to bring it to an end”.
声明称，英国“对于这一不可接受的局面仍然被允许持续下去深感沮丧”，并呼吁厄瓜多尔“与瑞典真诚接触，解决这件事”。
Philip Hammond, the UK foreign secretary, described the ruling as “ridiculous”. He said the working group is “made up of lay people not lawyers and their conclusion is flawed in law”.
英国外交大臣菲利普·哈蒙德(Philip Hammond)形容联合国工作小组的裁决“荒谬”。他说，这个工作小组“由外行而不是律师组成，他们的结论在法律上是有缺陷的”。
On Thursday, before the official publication of the UN ruling, a spokesperson for the Swedish foreign ministry said Sweden rejected the working group’s conclusions and would write to the panel on Friday to explain its position.
周四，在联合国正式发表裁决结果之前，瑞典外交部的一位发言人表示，瑞典拒绝接受该工作小组的结论，并将在周五致函该工作小组，解释瑞典的立场。
