The lack of reaction from the Arab and wider Muslim world after the terrorist attacks in Paris and Beirut is both shameful and unfortunate. The US-led coalition to fight Isis in Iraq and Syria is reeling from desertions by Arab states that have increasingly found excuses not to take part in military actions against the Islamist militant group, even though some of their own capitals have been targets.
在巴黎和贝鲁特恐怖袭击发生后，阿拉伯乃至整个穆斯林世界没有做出反应，这既可耻又遗憾。尽管一些阿拉伯国家自己的首都已经成为“伊拉克和黎凡特伊斯兰国”(ISIS)攻击的目标，但阿拉伯国家越来越多地找借口退出了针对ISIS的军事打击行动，被它们撇下的以美国为首在伊拉克和叙利亚打击ISIS的联盟越来越难以支撑。
The Paris aftermath has led in the west to an excess of discussion on military and political policy on Iraq and Syria, how to deal with the Syrian leadership and how to cope with the refugee crisis. Yet in the Arab world there has been little policy reassessment or debate.
在西方，巴黎遭遇恐袭促使人们就对伊拉克和叙利亚的军事和政治政策、如何处理叙利亚领导层、以及如何应对难民危机等问题，展开了无休无止的讨论。不过，在阿拉伯世界里，人们几乎没有对相关政策进行重新评估或辩论。
International pressure is mounting on the Arab states. Anwar Gargash, the United Arab Emirates minister for foreign affairs, was quoted on Monday by the official WAM agency as saying that the UAE would “participate in any international effort demanding a ground intervention to fight terrorism” in Syria. But unless western nations galvanise the states into action and their governments to act more responsibly over the crisis in the Middle East, the situation across the Muslim world will become increasingly dangerous. Isis is already killing far beyond its heartland — most recently in Afghanistan and Bangladesh.
阿拉伯国家面临的国际压力日益增加。阿联酋官媒阿联酋通讯社(WAM)不久前援引阿联酋外交事务国务部长安瓦尔愠尔卡什(Anwar Gargash)的话称，阿联酋将在叙利亚“参与任何需要地面干预的打击恐怖主义的国际努力”。但是除非西方国家促使阿拉伯国家行动起来、同时在中东危机问题上更负责任地行事，否则整个穆斯林世界的局势将越来越危险。ISIS的屠刀已经伸到了距离其中心地带很远的地方，最新遭殃的是阿富汗和孟加拉国。
After Paris, there have been no urgent meetings of the Arab League or the Organization of the Islamic Conference — the premier Arab and Muslim policymaking groups. There have been no united calls to combat and defeat Isis, while individual states have excused themselves from taking any action.
在巴黎事件发生后，阿拉伯国家联盟(Arab League)和伊斯兰合作组织(Organization of the Islamic Conference)——阿拉伯和穆斯林政策制定最高组织——没有召开任何紧急会议。也没有任何关于抗击和击败ISIS的联合呼吁，个别国家还容许自己不采取任何行动。
The UAE and Saudi Arabia long ago stopped bombing Isis targets in Iraq and Syria, claiming that they were too busy with Yemen — where the conflict is localised rather than a regional threat. (Remember the smiling face of the UAE female fighter pilot who took part in the first bombing runs of the coalition earlier this year? Well, that participation has ended.) Bahrain is too busy battling its own majority Shia population. In November, at a conference in the Gulf, officials from numerous Gulf states told me that they considered the Iranian threat far more serious than that posed by Isis. For Iran, read the presumed Shia threat, even though all the Gulf states have some Shia population. Last month’s suicide attacks in Paris, Beirut and Tunis and the bomb placed aboard a Russian airliner in Egypt have done nothing to change that analysis.
阿联酋和沙特阿拉伯早已停止了在伊拉克和叙利亚轰炸ISIS目标的行动，声称它们忙于处理也门问题，但也门冲突仅局限于当地、不构成区域性威胁。（还记得今年早些时候，参与了首轮联合轰炸行动的那位阿联酋女战斗机飞行员微笑的脸吗？嗯，此类参与已经结束。）巴林忙于打击占其人口多数的什叶派。11月，在海湾地区的一次会议上，来自无数海湾国家的官员告诉我，他们认为伊朗构成的威胁比ISIS严重得多。他们口中伊朗构成的威胁，其实就是什叶派构成的所谓威胁——尽管所有的海湾国家都有一些什叶派人口。发生在巴黎、贝鲁特和突尼斯的自杀性袭击，以及置于埃及境内俄罗斯客机上的炸弹，都没能改变这一结论。
Iran certainly has been predatory in the Middle East, creating Shia militias and opposition groups in Lebanon and Iraq and funding groups opposed to the royal families of Saudi and Bahrain, according to their governments. But it is not now trying to bomb every Arab city, seize Arab oil or kill off every ruling family, as Isis would like to do.
据相关政府的说法，伊朗在中东无疑一直处于攻势，在黎巴嫩和伊拉克创建了什叶派民兵组织和反对派团体，还为反对沙特和巴林王室的团体提供资金。但是眼下伊朗并未试图轰炸每一座阿拉伯城市、攫取阿拉伯地区的石油和杀光每一个执政家族，是ISIS想要这样干。
There is deep, misplaced suspicion among Arab states that after the nuclear deal with the US, Washington is trying to leverage Iran into playing a major security role in the Gulf, displacing the Arabs — even though Iran does not have the capability to do so and the US’s current oil-rich allies are far more valuable than an unknown quantity such as Iran.
阿拉伯国家存在一种根深蒂固的错误怀疑，认为在伊朗与美国签订核协议后，华盛顿正试图让伊朗在海湾地区扮演重要的安全角色，取代阿拉伯国家——尽管伊朗没有这样的能力，而且美国眼下这些石油资源丰富的盟友比伊朗这样的未知数要有价值得多。
The wealthy Arab states also cannot agree on who to finance and arm among the myriad Syrian groups, causing competition among them. Nor have they provided enough funding for UN and other aid organisations operations in the refugee crisis that erupted in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon and has now spread to Europe. While the Europeans debate how many refugees to take in, the wealthy Gulf states have yet to agree to rehabilitate any Syrian or Iraqi refugees.
关于在众多叙利亚组织中资助和武装谁，富裕的阿拉伯国家也无法达成一致，导致这些组织相互竞争。对于在土耳其、约旦和黎巴嫩爆发，如今扩散至欧洲的难民危机，他们也没有为联合国和其他援助组织的行动提供足够资金。在欧洲人讨论该接纳多少难民的时候，富裕的海湾国家还尚未同意安置任何叙利亚和伊拉克难民。
The struggle against Isis has to be Arab-led and Arab-fought, although doubtless with US and European backing. Politically, it must present an Arab face to win the ideological battle against Isis. After the disastrous US occupation of Iraq, Arab leaders are well aware that the more the US increases its exposure in the Middle East, the greater the anti-American feeling in the region, and the more difficult it becomes to gain support for action from a reluctant White House and Congress.
抗击ISIS的斗争必须由阿拉伯人领导、由阿拉伯人来打，虽然无疑也得有美国和欧洲的支持。从政治角度而言，要打赢抗击ISIS的意识形态战，这场斗争必须是阿拉伯人的斗争。有了美国占领伊拉克的前车之鉴，阿拉伯领导人很清楚美国在中东露面越多，该地区的反美情绪就越高涨，而他们的行动也越难得到不情愿的白宫和美国国会的支持。
The 21-nation talks in Vienna led by the Americans to decide on a common policy towards Syria and the future of President Bashar al-Assad have offered the first real opportunity in five years of mayhem in the country for all parties to achieve common policy goals. But the Vienna talks cannot succeed unless the Arab states show determination and unity. Sunni and Shia must fight together, not each other.
21个国家在维也纳举行的谈判，首次给陷入混乱长达5年的伊朗带来了真正的机会，使各方可以实现共同的政策目标。该谈判由美国人主导，旨在决定对叙利亚的共同政策以及未来如何处置叙利亚总统巴沙尔阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)。但是，除非阿拉伯国家表现出决心和团结，维也纳谈判无法成功。逊尼派和什叶派必须共同作战，而不能互掐。
