China’s shoppers defiedthe country’s economic slowdown, boosting ecommerce group Alibaba to a betterthan expected 39 per cent year-on-year rise in revenues for the past quarter.
中国购物者没有受到国内经济增长放缓的影响，助推电子商务集团阿里巴巴(Alibaba)在上个季度实现好于预期的39%营收同比增长。
That rate of growth was the highest of thepast four quarters, the company said, while mobile revenues rose 149 per centyear on year to Rmb13.1bn ($2bn). Quarterly revenues rose to Rmb24.2bn, beatingmarket expectations, while annual active buyers on the company’s retailmarketplaces increased to 423m, up 16m over the prior quarter.
该公司表示，这个增幅是在过去四个季度中最高的，同时移动端营收同比增长149%，至131亿元人民币（合20亿美元）。季度总营收增至242亿元人民币，超出市场预期，同时该公司零售市场的年度活跃买家增至4.23亿，比前一季度增加1600万。
“Chinese consumers have a healthy balance sheet and ability to spend,”Joe Tsai,the company’s executive vice-chairman, told a press conference yesterday.
“中国消费者有健康的资产负债表和支出能力，”该公司执行副主席蔡崇信(Joseph Tsai)昨日在记者会上表示。
Economic growth in the first quarter ofthis year slipped to 6.7 per cent in China, well within the government’s targetrange but still the slowest rate of gross domestic product growth since thedepths of the global financial crisis in 2009.
今年第一季度，中国经济增长放缓至6.7%，处在政府的目标区间内，但仍是自2009年全球金融危机最严重时期以来最慢的国内生产总值(GDP)增速。
Alibaba’s revenue growth was faster thanthe 32 per cent rise of the December quarter as gross merchandise value (GMV)sold on its retail platforms such as Taobao and Tmall rose 24 per cent year onyear to Rmb742bn during the March quarter. Mobile GMV accounted for 73 per centof the total compared with 51 per cent a year earlier.
今年第一季度，阿里巴巴的营收增速超过去年第四季度的32%，其零售平台如淘宝和天猫上出售的总商品价值(GMV)同比增长24%，至7420亿元人民币。移动端GMV占总数的73%，高于一年前的51%。
“In the last six to 12 weeks Alibaba have been doing very well onmobile,”said Shaun Rein, of China Market Research group in Shanghai.
“在过去6到12个星期里，阿里巴巴在移动端表现不俗，”总部位于上海的中国市场研究集团(China Market Research)的雷小山(Shaun Rein)表示。
“I expect Alibaba to continue to do very well because consumerconfidence is still strong —salaries went up after lunar new year and there weren’t masslay-offs,”he added.
“我预期阿里巴巴将继续表现出色，因为消费者信心依然强劲——春节后工资有所上涨，同时没有大规模裁员，”他补充说。
“And people want to buy from overseas because they trust thoseproducts more.”
“还有人想从海外购买，因为他们更相信那些产品。”
Alibaba has about 80 per cent market sharein online retail in China and is successful in cross-border commerce.
阿里巴巴在中国网上零售市场拥有约80%份额，而且在跨境电商领域相当成功。
