Alibaba, the US-listed Chinese ecommerce group, is being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission for potential violations of US securities law.
在美国上市的中国电子商务集团阿里巴巴(Alibaba)由于可能违反美国证券法正受到美国证交会(SEC)的调查。
SEC officials have asked the company to provide documents and other information relating to several aspects of its business, including its accounting for its Cainiao logistics business, its handling of related party transactions and its reporting of operating data from Singles Day, an unofficial Chinese holiday that is now marked by the biggest shopping frenzy in the global calendar.
SEC官员要求该公司提供与其多个业务方面相关的文件和其他信息，包括其菜鸟物流业务的会计、对关联方交易的处理、以及“光棍节”运营数据的报告。“光棍节”是中国一个非官方节日，如今成了全球日历上最大的购物狂欢节。
The company said in its annual report, filed with the SEC on May 24, that it was voluntarily disclosing that the probe was taking place and was co-operating with investigators.
该公司在年报中（于5月24日提交SEC备案）称，其主动披露了SEC正在进行调查以及它正在配合调查的情况。
Alibaba’s lawyers have provided regulators with the requested documents.
阿里巴巴的律师向监管机构提供了要求被查看的文档。
SEC officials informed the company that the request for information did not indicate that “any violation of federal securities law has occurred”, Alibaba said, adding that it could not say when the matter would be resolved.
阿里巴巴表示，SEC官员通知该公司称，要求提供信息并不意味着它“出现了任何违反联邦证券法的行为”。它补充称，不知道问题何时才能解决。
Alibaba shares were down 3.9 per cent to $77.96 in morning trading in New York.
在纽约早盘交易中，阿里巴巴股价下跌3.9%，至77.96美元。
The internet retailer, which has annual revenue of $15.7bn, overcame several previous controversies to establish itself on US securities markets.
这家年营收157亿美元的互联网零售商之前克服了几个争议才进入美国证券市场。
Its 2014 initial public offering raised $25bn, making it the largest in history.
阿里巴巴2014年进行首次公开募股筹集资金250亿美元，使之成为史上规模最大的IPO。
The US-China Security Review Commission that year criticised Alibaba’s use of a structure called a “variable interest entity”, which is designed to circumvent China’s prohibition on foreign investment in industries such as internet and telecoms.
当年，美中经济与安全审查委员会(US-China Economic and Security Review Commission)批评阿里巴巴利用了所谓“可变权益实体”的结构——旨在避开中国在互联网和电信等行业禁止外国投资的规定。
The SEC has approved dozens of similarly structured China IPOs since 2000.
自2000年以来，SEC批准了数十次类似结构的中国企业IPO。
Alibaba was for several years on a US government list of companies implicated in the sale of pirated goods.
阿里巴巴多年来一直被列入美国政府编制的涉及出售盗版商品的企业名单。
But the company worked to eliminate such products from its online mall and escaped the annual listing of “notorious markets” in 2012.
但是，该公司一直在努力将此类商品从起在线商城中消除，并且在2012年逃过了“恶名市场”的年度名单。
Alibaba has beefed up its political operation in recent years.
近年来，阿里巴巴加强了政治运作。
It is represented in the US capital by a lobbying firm headed by Ken Duberstein, Ronald Reagan’s former White House chief of staff.
在美国首都，它由一家由罗纳德•里根(Ronald Reagan)前白宫幕僚长肯•杜伯斯坦(Ken Duberstein)领导的游说公司代表。
It also added a noted Republican communications professional, Jim Wilkinson, former Treasury department chief of staff, as head of international corporate affairs, based in San Francisco.
阿里巴巴还聘请著名的共和党沟通专家、美国财政部前幕僚长吉姆•威尔金森(Jim Wilkinson)担任国际企业事务的负责人，常驻旧金山。
Mr Wilkinson worked for Treasury secretary Hank Paulson during the global financial crisis and earlier served as a senior adviser to secretary of state Condoleezza Rice.
在全球金融危机中，威尔金森成为时任财政部长的汉克•保尔森(Hank Paulson)工作，此前曾担任过前国务卿康多莉扎•赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)的高级顾问。
