 The US will for the first time have an African-American as the star of one of its highest-circulation bank notes after the Treasury announced that Civil War-era abolitionist Harriet Tubman would be featured on a new $20 bill.
 美国财政部宣布新版20美元纸币将印上南北战争时期废奴主义者哈丽雅特•塔布曼(Harriet Tubman)的头像。20美元是流通量最大的美元之一，这是美国首次将一位非裔美国人作为其主要人物。
 Tubman will also be the first woman to grace US paper currency in more than a century thanks to the biggest shake-up of historical characters featured since 1928.
 塔布曼还将成为一百多年来美国纸币上出现的第一个女人，这是美元自1928年以来最大一次历史人物头像大换血。
 Treasury secretary Jack Lew last year launched a public consultation to secure nominations for a famous woman to replace Alexander Hamilton, the first US Treasury secretary and arguably the father of the modern American financial system, on the $10 bill.
 美国财长杰克•卢(Jack Lew)去年发起了一次公众咨询，征集著名女性人物提名，以取代亚历山大•汉密尔顿(Alexander Hamilton)印在10美元上。汉密尔顿是美国第一任财政部长，而且可以说是现代美国金融体系之父。
 But after a Broadway-fuelled backlash and what he described as a “long and difficult” process, Mr Lew on Wednesday said he had decided to push through a broader shake-up of US bank notes and ordered new designs for the $5, $10 and $20 bills.
 但由于百老汇音乐剧《汉密尔顿》的刺激，这一提议遭到了激烈反对，在经历了“漫长而艰难”——用杰克•卢的话来说——的过程之后，美国财长在周三表示他决定推动对美国纸币人物进行一次更全面的换血，并要求重新设计5美元、10美元和20美元纸币。
 Tubman will replace former president Andrew Jackson on the new $20 bill while Jackson will be on the reverse alongside an image of the White House. The new $5 bill will continue to feature Abraham Lincoln on the front but will on the back celebrate historic events at his memorial in Washington, including Martin Luther King’s 1963 “I have a dream” speech.
 塔布曼将取代前美国总统安德鲁•杰克逊(Andrew Jackson)，印在新版20美元纸币的正面，而杰克逊的头像将印在反面白宫图像旁。新版5美元的正面仍是亚伯拉罕•林肯(Abraham Lincoln)的头像，但反面将纪念一些发生在华盛顿林肯纪念堂前的历史事件，包括1963年马丁•路德•金(Martin Luther King)的“我有一个梦想”演讲。
 Mr Lew said
 杰克•卢表示：“作出这一决定后，我们的货币将讲述更多我们的故事，并反映出女性对我国民主制度的贡献，就像对男性贡献的反映一样。”
 “With this decision our currency will now tell more of our story and reflect the contributions of women as well as men to our country’s democracy.”
 哈丽雅特•塔布曼于1820年出生在美国马里兰州，曾是一名奴隶。她不仅自己逃脱了奴役，还带领数百名奴隶获得自由，成为美国南北战争时期“地下铁道”(Underground Railroad)逃跑网络中最著名的“向导”，于1913年去世。
