Congratulations! You made it through the application process and have been granted an interview. This is your chance to really stand out, to show them that you are the best person for the job. Or better yet, the only person for the job. But what's the best way to really shine at an interview? In the interest of creating a level playing field, Human Resources departments often design a hiring process which can seem a bit limiting. So how does one stand out in a procedure that's designed to look at all of us through the same lens?
Oddly enough, the interviewer or panel of interviewers may or may not have seen all the wonderful information you've provided about yourself. Depending on how large and/or bureaucratic the organization is, the process of deciding which candidates meet the minimum qualifications and can therefore be interviewed, may be completely separate (as in done by different people) than the process of interviewing and selecting the right person for the job. So double-check and make sure that the person/people you're talking to know your story.
As a perspective employee you will definitely want to know whether the company offers opportunities to move up. Pay attention to how you ask the question though. Said the wrong way, it sounds like you are stating that the current position, the one your applying for, is below you. You don't want the employer to think that you are only interested in this job as a way to get your foot in the door (even if that is the case).
How deeply invested a company is in training says a lot about them. It will give you an idea of whether they like to cultivate internal talent or would rather spend their money on Head Hunters who recruit from the outside. It will give you insight into the likelihood of learning new skills which could lead to promotions, or the opportunity to change departments once your in the door. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, it is an indicator of how serious they are about being the best in their field.
There are things you'll want to know that you can't really ask. You can't ask if everyone who works there is an uptight workaholic. Nor can you inquire whether or not management and worker bees have a hostile relationship. But you can try to elicit this information by asking about the culture.
Knowing how to do a good job means knowing what a good job is. Ask how, how often and by whom your performance will be reviewed. Is there a specific format for evaluating performance or is it up to each supervisor? Is employee assessment based on measurable outcomes? On technical performance? On soft skills?
审校：小飞侠 编辑：叫我王二白 来源：前十网
