Once you have a feel for who your co-workers will be, expand the question to ask how this team fits into the department, and the overall structure of the organization. This will give you a feel for how the pieces fit together and what other ways your skills might benefit the company. You are also letting your perspective employer know that you're interested in the big picture, in knowing how you doing your part serves the whole of the organization.
While preparing for the interview, you familiarized yourself with the company's history and public profile. Has the organization been in the news recently for skyrocketing stock prices, changes in top personnel, the introduction of an exciting new product line, or (hopefully not) layoffs? If it feels appropriate, show you've done your homework and mention some of these things now. Compliment the company on the positive changes that have been happening.
The job description, which hopefully you received, tells you what skills and experience the employer is requiring. But they are hoping for more than they're requiring. And in addition to skills and experience, they are looking for certain behaviors, abilities and soft skills. Furthermore, unless it is a new position, the employer will know how previous people who held the position did and how their abilities and experience served them in this particular job.
A job interview is a two way street. As the session progresses, you will be learning about your perspective employer, just as they are learning about you. If you feel that this is the job you want, then as the interview winds down, you'll want to put any reservations the interviewer has to rest. Remember, they may be constrained in what questions they can ask by strict rules imposed by Human Resources. So open the door for them. Find out if they have any specific concerns and answer them!
If you get to the end of the interview and know that you've aced it, smile up at the interviewer and ask when you can start working. Of course things are rarely that simple, and they will probably launch into a description of the process rather than giving you a date. That's okay. You need to know what the process is and if there's any more information you need to provide.
审校：小飞侠 编辑：叫我王二白 来源：前十网
