When you're in the hot seat, there's a good chance your interviewer will turn the tables at some point and ask, "Do you have any questions for me?"
当面试官问完问题后，他可能会转而问你：“你有没有什么问题要问我呢？”
When you have the floor, you'll want to take full advantage of the opportunity to show that you've done your homework and to determine if the job is a good fit.
当有机会发问时，你要充分利用这个机会来表示你来面试之前做了多少功课，并且判断这份工作是否适合你。
But it's imperative that you put just as much thought into what you ask as you do your responses to their questions, because your queries may reflect your knowledge of the company, your work ethic, your level of professionalism, and your interest in the role.
在问问题前要像你在回答问题时一样要多考虑，因为你的问题会反映出你对公司的了解程度、职业道德、专业水平和个人兴趣等。
"In the first interview, you'll want to be sure to ask the right questions. Ask about the job and company; not questions that can come off as self-serving and give the impression you may not be a team player or be willing to give 100%," says Amy Hoover, president of the job board.
网站求职板块负责人艾米·胡佛说：“你第一次面试时，一定要问对问题。问些与你的职位和公司的情况有关的问题，所提出的问题不能让面试官觉得你是个自私自利、缺乏团队意识、不思奉献之人。”
She continued: "The sole purpose of the interview is to determine if you are a good fit for the company, and if it's a good fit for you. All the other issues and concerns should be addressed during negotiations after the job offer has been made."
她还说：“面试的唯一目的在于确定面试者否是公司想要的人，以及这个工作是否适合你。其他的问题在公司决定录用你之后商量。”
Here are 17 questions you'll want to avoid during the first job interview, as they may do more harm than good:
以下17个问题是找工作面试时必须回避的，问这些问题一丝好处都没有。
What does your company do?
公司是做什么的？
Questions like this will make you look unprepared. To avoid that, never ask anything that can easily be answered with a Google search.
这类问题会暴露出对于这场面试，你没有做丝毫的准备。为避免这类问题，你不能问一些轻易能从谷歌找到答案的问题。
What will my salary be?
请问薪资是多少？
Hold off on the money talk.
避免涉及薪资的问题。
Will I have to work long hours?
这份工作的工作时间会很长么？
This says, "I'm lazy."
你的潜台词是说：“我是一个很懒的人。”
How soon can I take a vacation?
我多久可以休一次假？
Wait until you're offered the job before you start asking these types of questions.
在你被公司录用之前，不要涉及这类问题。
How quickly could I be considered for a promotion?
我多久能升职？
Focus on the job at hand.
应先关注目前的工作。
When will I be eligible for a raise?
什么时候能加薪？
This may tell the interviewer that money is the only thing you care about.
这相当于告诉面试官，钱是你唯一在意的东西。
Will I have my own office?
我有自己的办公室么？
Does it really matter?
这个问题很重要么？
What happens if I don't get along with my boss or coworkers?
要是我和我的上司或者同事相处不来怎么办？
The interviewer may wonder if you've had problems with colleagues in the past — and they may even assume you're difficult to work with.
面试官会觉得你和之前的同事是不是有过不愉快，甚至会怀疑你是不是很难相处。
Will I have an expense account?
我有报销账户么？
There's really no reason to ask this in the interview. Plus, it sends the wrong message.
面试时完全没有理由问这个问题，而且，这会传达出错误的信息。
Are you married?/Do you have kids?/etc.
你结婚了么？你有小孩了么？等等这类问题
Never, ever ask the interviewer any personal questions.
一定不要问你面试官任何私人问题。
Can I make personal calls during the day?
工作时我能打私人电话么？
This one says you're not 100% focused on your work.
这个问题说明你没有全身心投入到你的工作中。
I heard this rumor about the CEO. Is it true?
关于总裁的传言是真的么？
You should never bring gossip into a job interview. It's highly unprofessional.
工作面试的时候永远不要八卦，八卦会显得你非常不专业。
Do you monitor emails or internet usage?
你们会对邮件和上网进行监视吗？
This question will raise red flags — something you definitely don't want to do in the interview.
这个问题会让面试亮红灯——面试绝对不能问这种问题。
Do you do background checks?
公司会调查员工背景么？
This one may also make the interviewer suspicious.
这个问题会让面试官产生怀疑。
Can I arrive early or leave late, as long as I get my work done?
只要我完成工作就可以迟到早退吗？
Don't try to make adjustments to the schedule before you've even been offered the job.
在你得到这份工作以前，不要试图改变工作时间。
How did I do?
我表现怎么样？
This one puts the interviewer on the spot. If you really want feedback, wait until you get the offer or rejection, and then ask in an email what you did well, or could have done better.
这个问题会让面试官陷入一个十分尴尬的境地。如果你真的想要得到反馈，要等面试结果出来后发邮件去询问面试时哪里表现得好，哪里需要改进。
Did I get the job?
我能否被公司录用？
You don't want to appear too eager.
不要表现得太急于得到这份工作。
Bonus: The worst question of all is the one you never ask.
附加忠告：没有提任何问题是最糟的问题。
"Not asking questions can be just as bad, or worse, than asking terrible questions," says Deborah Shane, a career author, speaker, and media consultant. "It can reveal a lot about your communication skills, personality, and confidence — and it can leave the interviewer with a bad impression of you."
职业作家、演讲家、传媒顾问黛博拉·谢恩说：“面试者没有提出任何问题，和问错问题一样糟糕或者更糟糕，因为这会暴露出你在沟通技巧、性格和自信方面有很大的问题。从而让面试官对你的印象很差。”
