Hundreds of South Koreans held a sit-in on Wednesday in front of the Japanese embassy in Seoul to protest against this week’s landmark agreement with Japan aimed at resolving the longstanding dispute over second world war sex slaves.
数百韩国人周三在首尔日本大使馆前举行静坐，抗议本周韩国与日本达成的里程碑式协议。该协议旨在解决围绕二战性奴的长期争端。
Rallies have been held weekly in the South Korean capital since 1992 demanding a Japanese admission of responsibility and legal reparations for victims who were forced into sexual servitude for Japanese soldiers. Wednesday’s rally highlighted how Monday’s settlement was insufficient for many Koreans to bury the hatchet.
自1992年以来，韩国首都每周都会举行集会，要求日本承认对曾被迫为日本军人提供性服务的受害者负有责任，并提供法律赔偿。周三的集会凸显出，周一的和解协议不足以令许多韩国人就此罢休。
Under the accord, Japan offered to pay $8.3m into a fund for surviving victims based on “painful awareness” of its responsibilities for the system of forced prostitution, while Seoul promised not to press any future claims.
按照该协议，出于对日本为强迫卖淫制度所负责任的“沉痛认识”，日方提出将向一个为幸存受害者建立的基金支付830万美元，而韩国方面则承诺不会在未来提出任何诉求。
But many protesters said the agreement was “humiliating”, accusing the government of Park Geun-hye, South Korean president, of caving in to Tokyo.
不过，许多抗议者表示该协议“十分屈辱”，谴责韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)领导的政府向日本政府屈服。
In line with previous statements from Tokyo, an apology from Shinzo Abe, Japanese prime minister, stopped short of taking full legal responsibility, admitting only the “involvement” of the country’s military authorities.
和日本政府此前声明一样，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)发表的一份道歉并未承认全部法律责任，只是承认了日本军方当局的“参与”。
“Abe has yet to realise what his country has done to us,” said Lee Yong-su, an 88-year-old former sex slave who joined the rally. “I am at a loss for words...吠栀椀猀 kind of irresponsible negotiation is like killing us twice, three times.”
在参加集会的人群中，曾做过性奴的88岁老人李永洙（Lee Yong-su，音，上图左二）表示：“安倍仍未认识到他的国家对我们做了什么。我已经无话可说了……这种不负责任的谈判就像是第二次、第三次杀害我们。”
Seoul said the deal was “final and irrevocable”, leaving little room for South Korea to pursue other historical disputes, such as compensation for labourers forced to work in Japanese wartime industries such as coal mining.
韩国政府表示该协议是“最终且不可逆”的，这为韩国在其他历史争端（比如为被迫在采煤等日本战时产业工作的劳工提供赔偿）上的索赔几乎没有留下任何空间。
“Abe’s apology is just lip service. I don’t see anything more advanced than the Kono statement,” said Kwon Oh-hyun, a 79-year-old man participating in the rally, referring to the 1993 admission that Japan coerced many thousands of women into sexual servitude during the second world war. “It is humiliating to accept such a small donation from Japan in return for not raising the issue any more.”
参加集会的79岁男子权五铉(Kwon Oh-hyun)表示：“安倍的道歉只是种应酬话。我没看到任何比河野谈话(Kono statement)更进一步的东西。”他指的是1993年日本承认在二战期间胁迫成千上万妇女提供性服务。“接受日方这么点捐赠，换取我们不再提及此事，真是十分屈辱的。”
Many South Koreans suspect the US, which welcomed the deal, is behind the agreement. Washington has pushed for a rapprochement between its two Asian allies to guard against China’s rising power and North Korea’s nuclear ambitions.
许多韩国人怀疑该协议的幕后推手正是欢迎这一协议的美国。美国政府一直在推动这两个亚洲盟国恢复彼此间的友好关系，以防备中国不断崛起的实力及朝鲜的核武野心。
Ms Park, who had refused to meet Mr Abe unless he showed sufficient remorse for Japan’s past wrongdoing, held her first bilateral talks with her Tokyo counterpart in November and agreed to push for a resolution in the comfort women dispute.
朴槿惠曾表示，除非安倍对日本过去的罪行表现出足够的忏悔，否则她将拒绝与安倍会晤。今年11月，朴槿惠举行了与安倍晋三的首次双边会谈，并同意推动了结慰安妇争端。
