Seoul has extended its drive against North Korean revenue streams to the culinary arena by urging citizens to avoid restaurants across Asia that help Pyongyang secure foreign currency.
首尔方面将其切断朝鲜收入来源的行动延伸到了餐饮领域，敦促本国公民避免到海外的朝鲜餐厅就餐。这些餐厅分布在亚洲各地、帮助平壤获得外汇收入。
The call was intended to “block more thoroughly the flow of foreign currency into North Korea,” Seoul’s foreign ministry said yesterday, “given the concerns about it using hard currency for nuclear weapon and missile development”.
这一呼吁旨在“更彻底地阻止外汇流入朝鲜”，韩国外交部昨日表示，这是“出于对朝鲜将硬通货用于核武器和导弹研发的顾虑”。
South Korea has adopted an unusually assertive stance towards Kim Jong Un’s regime since Pyongyang defied UN sanctions on February 7 to launch a satellite using ballistic missile technology, a month after carrying out its fourth nuclear test.
2月7日，在进行第四次核试验一个月后，平壤方面公然违抗联合国(UN)制裁，发射了一枚应用了弹道导弹技术的卫星，此后韩国对金正恩(Kim Jong Un)政权展现出异常强硬的立场。
Seoul last week suspended operations at the Kaesong industrial park, 10km north of the border, where North Korean workers are employed by South Korean companies, for the first time since its establishment in 2004. Noting that workers’ wages were paid directly to the North Korean government, Seoul said the project had been helping fund Pyongyang’s nuclear programme.
上周，首尔方面暂停了开城工业园的运营，这是自2004年该工业园建成以来韩国方面首次采取这一举动。开城工业园位于韩朝边境线以北10公里，入驻工业园的韩国企业雇佣朝鲜工人工作。首尔方面指出，工业园工人的工资被直接付给朝鲜政府，因此该项目一直在帮助向平壤核项目输送资金。
By expanding its crackdown to North Korea’s overseas restaurants, Seoul has taken aim at an increasingly conspicuous source of foreign currency for Pyongyang. Reports have suggested South Korean tourists and business travellers make up a significant part of the clientele at the restaurants.
通过将打击范围扩大到朝鲜海外餐厅，首尔将目标对准了平壤一条日益明显的外汇来源。据报道，韩国游客和商务旅客是此类餐厅的重要客源。
In its energetic approach to cutting funding streams to North Korea, Seoul appeared to be trying to set an example as it sought to persuade China and other nations to impose tougher sanctions at the UN Security Council, said Kim Jae-chun, a professor at Sogang University.
首尔西江大学(Sogang University)的教授Kim Jae-chun称，借助旨在切断朝鲜资金来源的有力措施，首尔方面似乎正在尝试树立一个榜样，因为它希望说服中国及其他国家，在联合国安理会(Security Council)对朝鲜实施更严厉的制裁。
At the end of last year there were 129 restaurants across 12 countries, the Weekly Chosun magazine reported. Most are in China, where the owners include government bodies such as Pyongyang City Government and the Ministry of Culture and Sports, according to the North Korea Strategy Centre, a non-profit group. Other outposts can be found in Ulan Bator, Dubai and Moscow.
据《朝鲜周刊》(Weekly Chosun)报道，截至去年年底，朝鲜海外餐厅共有129家，分布在12个国家。据首尔非盈利性机构朝鲜战略中心(North Korea Strategy Centre)称，其中大多数餐厅开在中国，所有者包括平壤市政府和文化体育部等政府机构。还有些餐厅在乌兰巴托、迪拜和莫斯科。
The restaurants serve traditional Korean food ranging from rice cakes to dog meat stew and are staffed by young women in matching uniforms.
这些餐厅供应传统朝鲜美食，从年糕到炖狗肉等，员工多为穿着统一制服的年轻女性。
The female workers are recruited entirely from Pyongyang, according to NKSC researchers. “If you have a pretty face and are taller than 1.62m you have a high chance [of being selected],” a former waitress at a restaurant in China told the researchers. “But if you are not, you can still pay the management department and be selected discreetly.”
据朝鲜战略中心的研究员表示，女性员工全部从平壤招聘而来。“如果你有一张漂亮的脸，身高在1.62米以上，你就有很大的机会（被选中），”曾在中国一家朝鲜餐厅当过服务员的女士向研究员称，“如果你没达到这些要求，你也可以给管理部门一些钱，悄悄地被选上。”
Defectors say that work opportunities abroad are sought after because they offer far higher wages than formal jobs at home, which typically pay only about $1 a month at the black market exchange rate, forcing citizens to rely on black market activity.
脱北者称，海外工作机会在朝鲜很抢手，因为它们的薪水比国内正式工作高得多（按黑市汇率，后者通常每个月工资仅相当于1美元左右，这迫使人们依赖于黑市活动）。
More than 50,000 North Koreans work abroad, earning Pyongyang up to $2.3bn a year, according to Marzuki Darusman, the UN special rapporteur on human rights in North Korea.
联合国朝鲜人权状况特别报告员马祖基达鲁斯曼(Marzuki Darusman)表示，在海外工作的朝鲜人超过5万，每年最高可为平壤带来23亿美元的收入。
