Hong Kong police have confirmed that another of a group of five missing booksellers who sold works critical of Beijing is in mainland China, just a day after his colleague was paraded on Chinese state TV confessing to a 12-year-old drink-driving offence.
香港失踪的五名书商当中，又有一名经香港警方证实现身处中国内地，而就在一天前，此人的同事刚刚在中国官方电视台上“示众”、供认了12年前的一桩醉驾案。这五名书商销售的书籍，包括一些对中国政府持批评态度的。
Lee Bo, a British citizen, vanished at the end of last year in Hong Kong, several months after his colleagues from Causeway Bay Books disappeared while overseas. Hong Kong police had been unable to locate him until now.
这名叫李波的书商是英国公民，去年底在香港失踪。而在几个月前，他在香港铜锣湾书店(Causeway Bay Books)的几名同事在海外失踪。直到最近，香港警方还一直无法找到李波的下落。
The disappearances have sparked fears that Chinese state security is extending its reach into Hong Kong, in breach of the “one country, two systems” arrangement that guarantees the former British colony autonomy from Beijing, an independent legal system and free speech.
这些失踪案令人们担心中国国家安全部门正将其触手伸向香港，这有违“一国两制”安排。这种安排确保了香港这个前英国殖民地拥有自治权、独立的法律体系以及言论自由。
It has also prompted warnings from the UK government and the EU, with Philip Hammond, British foreign secretary, saying it would “not be acceptable for somebody to be spirited out of Hong Kong in order to face charges in a different jurisdiction”.
这还促使英国政府和欧盟(EU)发出警告，英国外相菲利普哈蒙德(Philip Hammond)称，“偷偷地把人带出香港在另一个司法管辖地受审是不可接受的”。
Hong Kong police said in a statement released late on Monday that the public security department in neighbouring Guangdong province had told them Mr Lee was in the mainland and that it had requested a meeting with him to “further understand the situation of the incident”.
香港警方在周一晚发布的声明中称，广东省公安厅告诉他们李波现在中国内地，香港警方已要求与李波会面以“进一步了解事件的情况”。
Hong Kong police said Guangdong public security had also sent them a letter addressed to the Hong Kong government from Mr Lee, which was similar in content to one sent to his wife and published by local media. The police said his wife had confirmed it was written by his hand.
香港警方称，广东省公安厅还发给了他们一封李波致香港政府的信，信的内容与李波寄给他妻子并在香港媒体上发表的信类似。香港警方表示，李波妻子已证实这封信为李波亲笔信。
In the letter, he said that “since I voluntarily went to the mainland to assist with investigations, progress has been good. Things are going well. I have made friends with them.”
The UK’s Foreign Office said it remained “deeply concerned by the disappearance and possible detention on the mainland of five individuals associated with the Causeway Bay Books bookstore in Hong Kong”.
英国外交部称，它仍“对与香港铜锣湾书店有关的五人失踪和可能在中国内地遭拘禁深感担忧”。
“We have urgently requested both the Hong Kong and mainland authorities’ assistance in ascertaining the welfare and whereabouts of a British citizen involved in the case,” it said.
Mr Lee’s wife, a shareholder in the publishing company that runs the bookshop, reported him missing on January 1 and later tried to withdraw the report, saying he had told her he was helping with an investigation in the mainland.
李波的妻子是运营该书店的出版公司的股东，她于1月1日报案称李波失踪，后又试图销案，称李波告诉她正在内地协助调查。
Hong Kong police said they were continuing to look into the case because only the person reported missing can close the file. The whereabouts of the other three missing booksellers is still unknown.
香港警方表示，他们正继续调查此案，因为只有被报失踪的人才能销案。其他三名失踪书商的下落仍不可知。
Human rights campaigners say China’s all-powerful police often coerce witnesses and suspects to extract confessions and put pressure on their families to minimise publicity around sensitive cases.
人权活动人士表示，拥有很大权力的中国内地警方常常采用强制手段套取证人和嫌疑人的口供，并会向他们的家人施压、以尽可能降低敏感案件的曝光度。
In the letter published by Hong Kong media, Mr Lee hit out at those using his “immigration methods as an excuse to wantonly attack one country, two systems” and called for people to “respect my personal choice and the privacy of my family”.
香港媒体的报道显示，李波在信中抨击了那些“以他入境方式为借口，大肆攻击‘一国两制’”的人，并呼吁人们“尊重我的个人选择和我的家庭私隐”。
“I hope people and organisations wanting to pursue their own agenda will stop blowing up and sensationalising the fact that I voluntarily returned to the mainland to assist in investigations,” he wrote.
