Central bank insider Liu Shuyu is renowned for his communication skills — a useful attribute at a time financial regulators have been broadly slammed for inept messaging.
身为央行局内人的刘士余以其沟通技巧而闻名——在中国金融监管者普遍因不擅对外沟通而受到批评的时代，这是个很有用的特长。
He is a regular face on the conference circuit, defending and clarifying policies at the central bank, where he cut his regulatory teeth. The revolving door between regulators and banks is a common path among top financial officials, and one trodden by his four predecessors at the China Securities Regulatory Commission — who, like Mr Liu, looped from central bank to commercial back and then to the securities regulator.
他的面孔在中国的会议上时常能够见到，他在那些场合捍卫和澄清央行的政策，央行是他获得监管经验的地方。在顶级金融高官中，监管机构和银行间的旋转门是一条常见的通道，他在中国证监会(CSRC)的四位前任就曾走过这条通道。这四人和刘士余类似，先在中国央行和商业银行之间交替任职，再到这家证券监管机构任职。
After 18 years at the People’s Bank of China, latterly serving as a deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China, he went on to chair Agricultural Bank of China, one of the “Big Four” state-owned banks, before being called back to fill Xiao Gang’s abruptly vacated post of chief securities regulator.
在中国央行工作了18年之后（他在那里的最后职位是中国央行副行长），他接着担任了中国“四大”国有银行之一中国农业银行(Agricultural Bank of China)的董事长。接着，他又被调回来，填补肖钢突然空出来的证监会主席一职。
According to state news agency Xinhua, he was about to open a conference on the outskirts of Beijing when he received an urgent summons to the State Council. He made a short speech, throwing in a light-hearted Spring Festival remark, before leaving.
据官方的新华社报道，他正要在北京郊区开会时突然接到了国务院的紧急通知。他在离开前发表了简短的讲话，以轻松的语气向人们拜了个年。
“Since we’ve not yet reached the end of the festival period, I wish you all a happy new year. It used to be that we’d get to the ninth day of festivities and run out of steamed buns and wine to greet people with. Now our quality of life is much improved, and we’ve got enough to last us through the festival season!”
“正月十五没过，过去拜年拜到初八，就一无馒头二无酒，现在生活水平好了，拜年可以拜到十五！”
In other words his message was focus on the long term, and you will see that we have never had it so good.
换句话说，他这句话传递的信号是：关注长期，你就会认识到我们的情况好得前所未有。
Former colleagues at the People’s Bank of China applaud his “high emotional intelligence”, according to multiple Chinese media reports. He will need to call on this and his much-touted level-headed charm to communicate China’s financial policies to investors, whose confidence in the stock market has been shaken by the turbulence of the past year.
根据多个中国媒体的报道，他在中国央行的前同事对他的“高情商”表示赞赏。他将需要动用这一特长，加上他备受好评的冷静魅力，向投资者沟通中国的金融政策——去年市场的动荡已大大动摇了投资者对股市的信心。
Since graduating from university in 1981, Mr Liu has always been a civil servant. He began in the Shanghai Economic System Reform Office and the National Development and Reform Commission.
自1981年大学毕业以来，刘士余一直在担任公务员。最开始，他是在上海市经济体制改革办公室(Shanghai Economic System Reform Office)和国家经济体制改革委员会（该机构2003年被并入发改委——译者注）任职。
His career has not been all plain sailing: last month, during his leadership of the Agricultural Bank of China, two employees carried out a Rmb3.9bn scam, allegedly using the money to invest in the domestic stock market. “Perhaps Mr Liu can better hunt down the stolen funds in his new role,” one blogger joked.
他的职业生涯也不是一帆风顺：上个月，就在他担任中国农业银行领导期间，两名该行员工实施了规模为39亿元人民币的欺诈行为，涉嫌用这笔资金投资于中国国内股市。对此，一名博客主人在网上调侃道：“也许刘士余在新的岗位上能更快追回这笔失窃的资金。”
Nor does his new job promise an easy ride. The role is widely referred to in the Chinese media as “the volcano seat” and his first test will be to introduce the new — and controversial — market-based IPO system.
此外，他的新职位也无法保证是一次轻松的旅程。在中国媒体中，证监会主席一职被广泛称作“火山口”。他面临的第一个考验将是如何引入新的、有争议的基于市场的首次公开招股(IPO)体系。
